https://www.newsinlevels.com/
https://breakingnewsenglish.com/index.html
https://www.fabulang.com/en/en/a2/2
https://lingua.com/english/reading/
https://www.theenglishhubforrefugees.com/materials/level-a2/ 


Come and join our lunchtime yoga class with experienced yoga teacher Divya Bridge!
When? Every Tuesday at 1.30 p.m.
Where? Meeting Room 7
How much? £10 for four 30-minute classes.
What to bring? Comfortable clothes. Divya will provide the yoga mats.
How to join? Write to Sam at Sam.Holden@example.com
 
We can only take a maximum of 20 in the room, so book now!
Poster 1
FINAL EXAM INSTRUCTIONS
Doors close 5 minutes before the exam begins.
Show your student ID card to examiner when you enter the room.
No phones, no books.
________________________________________
Poster 2
BEFORE THE EXAM
Have your ID card ready.
Listen to the instructions.
Arrive 10 minutes before exam.
IN THE EXAM
Mobile phones switched off and put away.
ID card visible on the desk.
No talking. 
No food or drinks in exam room.
________________________________________
Poster 3
Follow the examiner's instructions.
If you have a question, raise your hand.
No mobile phones, books or bags in the exam.
Please use a blue or black pen.

 
Tony's Kitchen
★★★★★☆
231 reviews
Chicken, Pizzas, Vegetarian
17 Broad Street
Opening at 11:30
Menu
Reviews
Info
Meat and fish
Grilled fish of the day
£8.00
Steak with chips or salad
£12.00
Sausage and roast tomato pasta
£7.00
Chicken salad with garlic yoghurt dressing
£7.00
Vegetarian
Cheese and tomato pizza
£7.00
Mushroom omelette
£6.00
Vegetable chili
£7.00
Soup of the day with brown or white bread
£4.00
Something sweet
Homemade carrot cake
£3.50
Homemade banana cake
£3.50
Chocolate ice cream with chocolate sauce
£3.50
Fresh fruit salad with grapes, mango, melon and apple, served with cream or ice cream
£3.50
Drinks
Cup of coffee
£2.00
Cup of tea
£1.50
Glass of wine, white or red
£3.00
Beer
£3.00
Water, still or sparkling
£1.00
Orange juice
£2.00

Monday to Wednesday
 	Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday
9.00	English level test	Vocabulary	Whole day excursion to London or Oxford
10.00	English skills: Speaking	English skills: Reading	
11.00	Preparation for excursion	Preparation for excursion	
12.00	Lunch	Lunch	
13.00	Project class	Project class	
15.00	Art	Basketball	
17.00	Free time	Free time	
18.00	Dinner	Dinner	Dinner
19.00	Swimming	Football tournament	Cinema
21.00	Free time	Free time	Free time
Thursday to Sunday
 	Thursday	Friday	Saturday	Sunday
9.00	Grammar	Vocabulary	Grammar	Late breakfast
10.00	English skills: Speaking	English skills: Listening	Progress test	English skills: Writing
11.00	Games with English	Drama	Drama	Preparation for excursion
12.00	Lunch	Lunch	Lunch	Lunch
13.00	Project class	Project class	Theatre trip	Excursion to local castle or museum
15.00	Circus skills	Mountain biking		
17.00	Free time	Free time		
18.00	Dinner	Dinner	Dinner	Dinner
19.00	Bowling	Talent show	Disco	Free time / packing
21.00	Free time	Free time	Free time	Free time / packing

DEPARTURES
Time	Flight	Destination	Gate	Remarks
10:45	XZ 3265	Chennai	17	Departed
10:50	SQ 0972	Amsterdam	23	Departed
11:00	SQ 2509	Mexico City	19	Departed
11:05	RT 9122	Buenos Aires	34	Cancelled
11:10	XZ 6005	Los Angeles	05	Final call
11:20	QE 0078	Beijing	33	Final call
11:25	TY 2053	Christchurch	56	Delayed
11:25	ER 7452	Seoul	25	Boarding
11:30	XZ 0352	Moscow	12	Boarding
11:35	XZ 0569	Kuala Lumpur	27	Gate change

KPD Foods
Bruno Silva
Head of Marketing
Address: Avenida Paulista 53, Bela Vista, São Paulo, 01311-914, Brazil
Tel: (+55) 11 8134 7706
Email: bruno.silva@KPDFoods.com
Getty Telecommunications Ltd
Olivia Hoskins
International Project Manager
Address: 700 Rockville Street, Monroe, New York 10950, USA
Tel: (+1) 845 228 8396
Email: Olivia.Hoskins@GettyTel.com
Orion Education Services
Park Ji-Yeon
Director
Address: South Korea, Seoul, Jongno-gu, Sajik-ro-3-gil 23, 30174
Tel: (+82) 2 235-6482
Email: Jiyeon_Park@OrionEducation.com
. Travel
Rashid Khan
Sales Representative
Address: Hajar Road, Dubai, UAE
Tel: (+971) 4 677 3355
Email: Rashid.Khan@.TravelDubai.com
Task

attend 
(v)
to officially go to a place, like a school, university or class
You must attend 80 per cent of classes to pass the course.
dormitory plural dormitories
(n)
1. a place where many people sleep
2. US: a big building at a university where students live (UK: hall of residence)
I know John. He lives in my dorm at university.
faculty plural faculties
(n)
all the teachers who work at a university
Norman Brown was in the English faculty for twenty years.
teaching assistant
(n)
a person who works to help a university teacher in a classroom
The teaching assistant has the exams for you at the end of class.
tuition fee
(n)
an amount of money that you pay to go to university
Tuition fees are very high this year.
undergraduate
(n)
a student at a college or university who is studying for a first degree
They met when they were undergraduates at Cambridge University.

City flat
Beautiful two-bedroom city flat five minutes' walk from the cathedral. Fully equipped kitchen, living room with a large sofa and chairs, big TV and balcony. The balcony has space for four people to sit and gets the sun in the mornings, and the flat is light and warm. It has Wi-Fi and fast internet. The upstairs bedroom sleeps four people, with two double beds; the downstairs bedroom sleeps two in single beds. The flat is perfect for families and is near shops, bars and restaurants.

Farmhouse
Four-bedroom farmhouse in the countryside. All of the four double bedrooms are en suite with luxury shower and bath. Farm kitchen with barbecue, tables and chairs outside. Great for groups of friends. The supermarket is half an hour by car and you can take a train from the village into the city. Escape from normal life for a few days as we have … NO INTERNET and you can only use mobile phones at the bottom of the garden!
Do you like cars? Are you friendly and do you like chatting with people? Would you like to make £200 a day selling cars? If you answered yes to the above questions, we’d like you to be on our team! (Driving licence required.)
Company
Motor Ground is a car sales company that buys and sells used cars.
Location
Chennai, India
 
We're looking for a marketing manager to manage an international team. Ability to speak English necessary. Salary is £50,000 a year.
Company
Groovy is a German clothes company that has shops in countries across Europe.
Location
Munich, Germany
 
French teacher wanted to teach children between the ages of 3 and 12. Applicants must have teaching experience. £15 per hour.
Company
LinguaFun is a language school that offers modern language classes to students of all ages.
Location
Singapore
 
Nurse needed in private hospital. Must be registered to work in the UK. £25,000 per year.
Company
Private hospital with 50 years' experience providing high-quality health care.
Location
London, UK

Mario called. He wants you to call back before 7 p.m.
Sales meeting this afternoon at 12 noon. Meeting Room 2.
Pens ready for collection between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.
Jackie is leaving the office at 4 p.m. today. Please remember to lock the doors. The keys are in your drawer.
Student ID card application
First name: Samia
Last name: Khan
Date of birth: 09/10/1992
Address: 5 Ledger Road, Cardiff
Postcode: CF10 5RE
Nationality: Canadian
I declare that the information provided is correct.
Signature: Samia Khan
Date: 28/02/2019
________________________________________
Your checklist – have you got everything you need?
[ ✔ ] a passport photo
[ ✔ ] a copy of your passport or other photo ID
[ ✔ ] proof of student status e.g. a letter from your university
Your card will be issued within 30 days and sent to the address provided.
Neira
online
Hi Aziz! Are you there?
15:57
Hello? Hello?!?
16:03
Hi! I'm here! I'm here.
16:04
Good.  
16:04
What's up, Neira?
16:05
Would you like to meet for a coffee?
16:05
Yes! When?
16:05
I'm working now, but I finish work at five. Maybe at 5.15?
16:05
That's difficult for me. Can we meet 30 minutes later?
16:06
OK. Where?
16:06
The Blue Café is nice. I love the tea there.  
16:07
It's closed on Mondays. Let's go to Rocket Boy. It's new.
16:08
Is it good?
16:08
It's very good!
16:08
Where is it? I don't know it.
16:09
It's next to the school. See you there?
16:09
See you there at 5.45!
16:09
Hi Lucia
How are you? It was so nice to meet you last week in Sydney at the sales meeting. How was the rest of your trip? Did you see any kangaroos? I hope you got home to Mexico City OK.
Anyway, I have the documents about the new Berlin offices. We're going to be open in three months. I moved here from London just last week. They are very nice offices, and the location is perfect. There are lots of restaurants, cafés and banks in the area. There's also public transport; we are next to an U-Bahn (that is the name for the metro here). Maybe you can come and see them one day? I would love to show you Berlin, especially in the winter. You said you have never seen snow – you will see lots here!
Here's a photo of you and me at the restaurant in Sydney. That was a very fun night! Remember the singing Englishman? Crazy! Please send me any other photos you have of that night. Good memories.
Please give me your email address and I will send you the documents.
Bye for now
Mikel
What can I take on the plane as hand luggage?
Please note that passengers can only take ONE suitcase onto the plane. It must be no bigger than 55cm x 22cm x 35cm and weigh no more than 10kg.
You can also take one small laptop bag or handbag that can fit under the seat in front of you. If you have two bags, their total weight cannot be more than 10kg. If your bag is too big or too heavy, you will not be allowed to take it onto the plane. Staff will put it in the hold for you and you will have to pay extra.
Please make sure mobile phones and other devices are fully charged so that security staff can check them.
Liquids in bottles bigger than 100ml are allowed on board if you buy them in the airport shops after you've passed security. 
We hope you enjoy your flight!
Hi Samia,
Just a quick email to say that sounds like a great idea. Saturday is better for me because I'm meeting my parents on Sunday. So if that's still good for you, why don't you come here? Then you can see the new flat and all the work we've done on the kitchen since we moved in. We can eat at home and then go for a walk in the afternoon. It's going to be so good to catch up finally. I want to hear all about your new job!
Our address is 52 Charles Road, but it's a bit difficult to find because the house numbers are really strange here. If you turn left at the post office and keep going past the big white house on Charles Road, there's a small side street behind it with the houses 50–56 in. Don't ask me why the side street doesn't have a different name! But call me if you get lost and I'll come and get you.
Let me know if there's anything you do/don't like to eat. Really looking forward to seeing you!
See you soon!
Gregor
Southwestern University
Candidate's surname: Martella
Candidate's first name: Javier
Student number: 15604088-B
Academic year: 2019–2020
Course: English Basics 2
Term: 3 (final)
Mark breakdown
Skills/Area	Maximum mark	Pass mark	Mark obtained	Pass/Fail
Reading	20	10	15	P
Listening	20	10	8	F
Writing	20	10	14	P
Speaking	20	10	17	P
Grammar/Vocabulary	20	10	11	P
TOTAL	 	 	65	P
Comments
Well done, Javier, on all your hard work this term. You are always active in speaking activities, and this is great. I always enjoy reading your writing too; you have very good ideas. You can see from your marks that reading is not a problem for you.
Sometimes you still make small grammar mistakes, and I think you can improve your vocabulary. I recommend you review many of the language points we studied this term. There is extra language practice in your online workbook.
The area you need to work on the most is listening. I know this is difficult for you. I recommend more practice at home. Listen to English TV shows, podcasts and radio as much as possible. I can give you a list of things to listen to.
I've enjoyed working with you. Have a nice holiday, and good luck for next term!
Instructor's name: Erin Gibbs
Signed: Erin Gibbs
In 1885, Hermann Ebbinghaus studied his own memory. He wanted to know how quickly he forgot new information. He gave himself tests after different periods of time to see how much he forgot each time. The result is called The Forgetting Curve.

[1] We forget the fastest in the first 24 hours.
[2] And then we forget more and more but the speed slows down over time.  
[3] After about six days, we have forgotten most of the new information.
[4] If we revise the information …
[5] ... we make the memory stronger and we slow down the speed of forgetting.
[6] If we revise again and again, we can leave longer and longer periods of time between revisions.
Time is not the only thing that makes us forget something. If we are tired or under stress, we forget faster. If the information was difficult to understand we will forget it faster too. But things that are very important or meaningful to us are easier to remember.
To: Grace Yang
Date: 6 September
Subject: Invitation to job interview
Dear Grace,
Thank you for your application for the position of sales manager.
We would like to invite you for an interview at 10 a.m. on Monday 21 September at our offices at The Shard, 32 London Bridge Street, London.
You will meet with our head of sales, Susan Park, and the interview will last for about 45 minutes. During this time, you will have the opportunity to find out more about the position and learn more about our company.
Please bring your CV and references to the interview. You will also need to show a form of ID at reception to receive a visitor's pass. Please ask for me as soon as you arrive.
If you have any questions or if you wish to reschedule, please call me on 555-1234 or email me by 12 September.
I look forward to meeting you.
Best regards,
Anna Green
Human Resources Assistant
The International Centre
Whether you are looking for a conference venue or a place to have your meetings and your training days, the International Centre is the perfect modern space for your event.
Offering free Wi-Fi, secure parking and all-day refreshments, the International Centre has 120 meeting rooms and a theatre for up to 1,000 people.
Conveniently located in the city centre, the International Centre is close to the shops and only a ten-minute walk to the train station.
The Grand West
The Grand West is a country house surrounded by rolling hills and beautiful scenery, only a 30-minute drive from the airport.
With 76 hotel rooms, 12 meeting rooms and a conference room that takes up to 200 people, the Grand West offers free Wi-Fi and a whiteboard in every room.
You can also make use of the gardens of the Grand West for team-building events and outdoor activities. Our indoor swimming pool, gym and 18-hole golf course will ensure that your event is relaxing and enjoyable for everyone.
Charles School
Learn English in one of our three schools for the best experience at the lowest prices. Choose from London, Oxford or Cambridge. Practise your English, make friends and see England!
General English
Improve your speaking, listening, reading and writing.
Intensive course
31 hours per week, Monday–Thursday 9 a.m.–5 p.m. and Friday 9 a.m.–12 p.m.
Part-time course
15 hours per week, Monday–Friday, mornings, afternoons or evenings.
Mornings: 9 a.m.–12 p.m.
Afternoons: 2–5 p.m.
Evenings: 5–8 p.m.
Exam preparation
Extra focus on grammar and vocabulary, and exam practice.
19 hours per week, Monday to Thursday 9 a.m.–1 p.m., Friday 9 a.m.–12 p.m.
Prices (per week)
Intensive: £500
Mornings: £190
Afternoons: £230
Evenings: £270
Exam preparation: £300
________________________________________
Elizabeth School of English
One-to-one classes and groups in central London. Our teachers are all qualified and experienced for a high-quality English course.
Build your own course
Choose the modules to suit your needs. Choose the times that work for you.
General English**
English skills: reading, writing, listening, speaking
Writing extra
Speaking extra
Grammar and vocabulary
English for Life
English for business
English for doctors
English for engineers
University path
Exam preparation
Courses from 5 to 35 hours per week.
Prices
General English classes: £10 per hour
English for Life classes: £15 per hour
Exam preparation classes: £10 per hour
One-to-one classes: please email for prices
Hours
Monday to Friday 9 a.m.–9 p.m.
Saturday 9 a.m.–1 p.m.
** General English classes are only available with a minimum of two students.
Maria
I am an architect with 20 years' experience of designing and developing spaces. I am a partner in the award-winning STG Architects Ltd, which is famous for its work on the Galroy Building in London. I enjoy working with people from all over the world and have international experience of working in Italy, Greece, Thailand, Australia and Brazil. I have a Master of Science from Sheffield University and a BA in Architecture from Hull University. I also speak Italian and Thai. When I am not working, I spend my time hiking, skiing and diving.
Emily
I am an experienced sales manager with 12 years' experience of developing customer service teams. I am skilled in negotiation, team motivation and building successful sales teams. After ten years of working in sales and customer service at Halo Bank, I am now the sales office manager of a team of 120 at Southern General Plastics Ltd. I have an MBA from Stanford University and a degree in Business Studies from Cornell University. I am creative and hardworking, and enjoy working with others.
Many studies about language learning ask the question: What makes a good language learner? There are some things that good language learners do and some things they don't do. Here are some of the most useful suggestions from studies.
Don't be afraid of making mistakes. People often get things wrong. Good language learners notice their mistakes and learn from them.
Do group activities. People use language to communicate with other people. A good language learner always looks for opportunities to talk with other students.
Make notes during every class. Notes help you to remember new language. Look at your notes when you do your homework.
Use a dictionary. Good language learners often use dictionaries to check the meaning of words they don't know. They also make their own vocabulary lists.
Think in the language you're learning outside the classroom. When you're shopping or walking down the street, remember useful words and phrases. Sometimes, when you're at home, say new words to practise your pronunciation.
Do extra practice. Test and improve your language, reading and listening skills with self-study material. You can find a lot of this online.
Imagine yourself speaking in the language. Many good language learners can see and hear themselves speaking in the language. This helps their motivation.
Enjoy the process. Good language learners have fun with the language. Watch a TV series or film, listen to songs, play video games or read a book. It's never too late to become a good language learner.
The Osaka Expo 2025 has opened. More than 28 million people will visit it. The first Expo was in London in 1851. Expos try to answer world problems. The Osaka Expo shows the culture of 158 countries. The theme is "Creating a future society for our lives." In the US area, people can see exhibits on space travel.

The Osaka Expo is on an artificial island. It is in a round building called the Grand Ring. Guinness World Records said it is the world's "largest wooden architectural structure". Visitors can see lots of Japanese culture. There are exhibits on robots, flying cars, and Hello Kitty. Visitors can also see Myaku-Myaku – the Expo mascot.
Expo 2025 has opened in Osaka, Japan. It ends in October. More than 28 million visitors will go to it. An Expo brings together people from all over the world. The first one was in London in 1851. Expos try to find answers to world problems. The Osaka Expo shows the culture, history and economy of 158 countries. The theme is "Creating a future society for our lives." At the US pavilion, people can see exhibits on space travel.

The Osaka Expo is on an artificial island. The 80 pavilions are in a round building called the Grand Ring. Guinness World Records said it is the world's "largest wooden architectural structure". A one-day ticket costs about $52. Visitors can see lots of Japanese culture. There are exhibits on robots, flying cars, and Hello Kitty. Visitors can also see the Expo mascot. This is called Myaku-Myaku. It has a blue face and many red eyes. It is good at finding rainbows.
The Osaka Expo 2025 has opened in Japan. People from many countries will visit the Expo. It ends in October. More than 28 million visitors will go to it. An Expo is an event that brings together people from all over the world. The first one took place in London in 1851. Expos try to find answers to the world's biggest problems. The Osaka Expo shows the culture, history and economy of 158 countries. The theme is "Creating a future society for our lives." At the US pavilion, people can see exhibits on space travel. The Italian pavilion has exhibits on architecture and environmental design.

The Osaka Expo is on an artificial island. The 80 pavilions are in a giant, round building called the Grand Ring. Guinness World Records said it is the world's "largest wooden architectural structure". It has a 2-kilometre circumference. A one-day ticket for adults costs about $52. Visitors can see many aspects of Japanese culture. There are exhibits on robots and flying cars, and on Hello Kitty. Visitors can also see the Expo mascot. This is a strange creature called Myaku-Myaku. It has a blue face and many red eyeballs. It is good at finding rainbows.

The value of Asia's stock markets has fallen. It is the biggest fall in decades. Shanghai's market was down nearly 8%. Japan's fell 7.8%. An analyst called it a "bloodbath". Stock prices fell after the USA announced trade tariffs on April the 2nd. President Trump said that was the day "we began to make America wealthy again".

A Chinese newspaper said China has had "eight years of trade wars with the US". It said China would beat "US tariff bullying". China could put its own tariffs on the USA. Japan will ask the USA to reduce the tariffs. President Trump said the tariffs were like medicine. He said they would fix things.
The value of global stock markets has fallen. It is the biggest fall in decades. Shanghai's market was down nearly 8%. Japan's Nikkei index was 7.8% down. An analyst called the situation a "bloodbath". Stock prices fell after the trade tariffs announced by US President Donald Trump on April the 2nd. He said that day "will forever be remembered as the day American industry was reborn…and the day that we began to make America wealthy again".

Some countries will take action over the tariffs. A Chinese newspaper said China has had "eight years of trade wars with the US" and that China would beat "US tariff bullying". China could increase its own tariffs on the USA. Japan's Prime Minister said he would ask the US to reduce the 24% tariffs on Japanese goods. Talking about the tariffs, Trump said: "Sometimes you have to take medicine to fix something."
The value of stock markets in Asia has fallen. It is the biggest fall in decades. Shanghai's market was down nearly 8%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 13.22%, and Japan's Nikkei index was 7.8% down. Markets in Australia also sank. An analyst told the BBC that the markets were a "bloodbath". Stock prices fell after the trade tariffs announced by US President Donald Trump on April the 2nd. He called this day "Liberation Day". He said it "will forever be remembered as the day American industry was reborn…and the day that we began to make America wealthy again".

Many countries are thinking about what to do about the tariffs. A newspaper in China wrote: "After eight years of trade wars with the US, we've built up a wealth of experience in this struggle." It added that China would beat "US tariff bullying". The country could increase its own tariffs on the USA. Japan's Prime Minister said he would ask the US to reduce the 24% tariffs on Japanese goods. He will visit the US to explain to President Trump that Japan "is not doing anything unfair". Talking about the tariffs, Trump said: "Sometimes you have to take medicine to fix something."
It is difficult for Gen Zers to find a job. A Gen Zer is born between the mid 1990s and early 2010s. A journalist warned of a "career apocalypse". She said Gen Zers must "prepare for the worst". A British journalist said people are studying for "worthless degrees". He said young people would "be much better off" as electricians.

There are over 4 million Gen Zers not in work in the USA. Many people cannot find jobs because of AI, which is replacing many jobs. Teachers, accountants, writers, etc. could disappear. Some people say graduates want to join a company at a management level. They want good money in their very first job.
It is difficult for university graduates and Generation Z (or Gen Zers) to find a job. A Gen Zer is born between the mid-to-late 1990s and early 2010s. Journalist Aki Ito warned of a "career apocalypse". She said an uncertain world means graduates must "prepare for the worst". A British journalist said many people are studying for "worthless degrees". He said young people would "be much better off" if they became electricians.

There are over 4 million Gen Zers not in school or work in the USA. In the UK, there were almost a million. Many people cannot find jobs because of AI, which is replacing an increasing number of jobs. There are fears that teachers, accountants, writers, etc. could disappear. Some people say graduates do not want to do "entry-level" jobs. Instead, they want to join a company at a management level. They want to be well paid in their very first job.
It is hard for young people and university graduates looking for work. It is becoming difficult for Generation Z (or Gen Zers) to find a job. A Gen Zer is born between the mid-to-late 1990s and early 2010s. Aki Ito, writing for the "Business Insider" website, warned of a "career apocalypse". She said uncertainty in the world means graduates must "prepare for the worst". A British journalist said one reason is that people are studying for "worthless degrees". He said young people would "be much better off" if they became plumbers or electricians.

There are over 4 million Gen Zers not in school or work in the USA. In the UK, there were 987,000 young people aged 16 to 24 not in education, employment, or training last year. Many people cannot find jobs because of AI, which is replacing an increasing number of jobs. There are fears that teachers, accountants, lawyers, writers, and other jobs could disappear. However, some people say many graduates do not want to do "entry-level" jobs. Instead, they want to enter a company at a management level. They want to be well paid in their very first job.
AirlineRatings.com has announced its top airline for 2025. This year's winner is Korean Air. The website said Korean Air won for its focus on passenger comfort, particularly in economy class. It added that Korean Air provided slippers and large meals on long flights. It also has "modern, fuel-efficient aircraft".

There were winners in other categories. Qatar Airways won the best business class award. Its business class cabins give passengers "complete privacy". The best first-class company was Singapore Airlines. The top low-cost airline was AirAsia. It won for its meals and drinks, Wi-Fi, in-flight entertainment, and safety.
The website AirlineRatings.com has announced its top airline for 2025. The website puts together the World's Best Airlines Awards. This year's winner is Korean Air. The website wrote: "Korean Air won...for its exceptional focus on passenger comfort, particularly in economy class." It added the airline provided slippers and large meals on long-haul flights. The reviewers praised the airline for its "modern, fuel-efficient aircraft".

There were winners in other categories. Qatar Airways won the best business class award. This was because it has a cabin with "fully enclosed private suites...offering passengers complete privacy". The best first-class company was Singapore Airlines. Singapore's Changi Airport won the world's best airport award. The top low-cost airline was AirAsia. In this category, the reviewers looked at meals and drinks, Wi-Fi, in-flight entertainment, and safety standards.
Many airlines want to be the best. The website AirlineRatings.com has announced its top airline for 2025. The site gives reviews and information on airlines around the world. It puts together the World's Best Airlines Awards. This year's winner is Korean Air. The website wrote: "Korean Air won...for its exceptional focus on passenger comfort, particularly in economy class." The site added: "Korean Air's thoughtful touches, such as slippers and generous meal portions on long-haul flights, enhanced its appeal." The reviewers praised the airline for its "modern, fuel-efficient aircraft".

There were also winners in other categories. Qatar Airways won the best business class award. This was because it has a cabin with "fully enclosed private suites with sliding doors, offering passengers complete privacy". The best first-class company was Singapore Airlines. The reviewers said the airline "redefined luxury". In addition, Singapore's Changi Airport won the world's best airport award. The top low-cost airline for 2025 was AirAsia. In this category, the reviewers looked at meals, drinks and snacks, Wi-Fi, in-flight entertainment, and safety standards.
The next ice age will be late. An ice age is a long time of freezing weather. It brings a huge increase in ice in the world. The researchers think the next ice age will be in 10,000 years. It could be delayed because of climate change. This could make it "very unlikely" that the next ice age will arrive on time.

A researcher looked at one million years of climate data. He studied how past ice ages happened. He looked at how ice affects the Earth's axis and global temperatures. When the amount of ice does not change, ice ages happen at regular intervals. The researcher said less ice means a longer gap between ice ages.
The next ice age will be late. An ice age is a long time of freezing weather. There is a huge increase in the amount of ice in the world. Mountain glaciers become bigger. The researchers are from the UK. They think the next ice age will arrive in 10,000 years. However, that could be delayed because of human activity and climate change. Global warming could make it "very unlikely" that the next ice age will arrive on time.

Melting ice in the North and South Poles will push back the ice age. A researcher studied how past ice ages happened. He looked at one million years of climate data. He found relationships between the Earth's axis, global temperatures, and the amount of ice at the North and South Poles. When the amount of ice is stable, ice ages happen at regular intervals. The researcher said less ice means a longer gap between ice ages.
Researchers say the next ice age will be late. An ice age is a long period of freezing temperatures. There is a huge increase in the amount of ice at the North and South Pole. In addition, mountain glaciers become bigger. The researchers are from Cardiff University. They believe the next ice age should arrive in 10,000 years from now. However, the researchers think the next ice age could be delayed because of human activity. A member of the research team said climate change could delay it. She said global warming could make it "very unlikely" that the next freeze will arrive on time.

The scientists said melting ice in the North and South Poles will push back the ice age. Researcher Professor Stephen Barker studied how past ice ages happened. He looked at one million years of climate data. He found relationships between changes in the Earth's axis, global temperatures, and the size of Antarctica and the Arctic. When the amount of ice was stable, ice ages happened at regular intervals. However, Professor Barker said less ice means a longer gap between ice ages. He said Earth's climate is "an interconnected system of complex processes".
Many towns have little rain. It is difficult for people to get water. Scientists say harvesting water from fog could be an answer. The researchers collected fog water on large screens. Drops of fog water stick to the screen. The water then drips into tanks below. It is a cheap and easy way to collect water in dry areas.

The researchers tested fog harvesting in a desert town which gets 5 mm of rain a year. People get water delivered by truck. Fog harvesting could change this. It could be a "practical water resource". A researcher said "water from the clouds" could give cities access to clean water.
Many towns have little rain. It is a challenge for people to get water. Scientists in Chile say harvesting water from fog could provide water for millions of people. The researchers studied how fog harvesting can collect water. Water from fog is collected on large mesh screens. Drops of fog water stick to the mesh. The water then drips into storage tanks below. This is a cheap and easy way of collecting water in dry areas.

The researchers tested fog harvesting in a desert town which gets 5 mm of rain a year. People there get their drinking water delivered by truck. A researcher said fog harvesting could change this. People will think more about the uses of fog water. She said it could be a "practical water resource". She said "water from the clouds" could protect cities during climate change. She added that fog harvesting could give cities access to clean water.
Many places in the world have little rain. It is a challenge for people to get water. Scientists in Chile want to help the driest towns and cities in the world. They say harvesting water from fog could provide drinking water to millions of people. The researchers have been studying how fog harvesting can collect water. It is a simple process. Water from fog is collected on large mesh screens. When fog passes through the screens, drops of water stick to the mesh. This water drips into storage tanks below. This is a cheap and easy way of collecting water in dry areas.

The researchers are from a university in the capital city Santiago. They tested fog harvesting in the desert town of Alto Hospicio, which gets less than 5 mm of rainfall a year. Many people there get their drinking water delivered by truck. A researcher said fog harvesting could bring a "new era" to the town. People will think more about the uses of fog. She said it could be a "practical water resource for cities". She said "water from the clouds" could protect cities from climate change. She added that fog harvesting could also improve access to clean water.

Dominic turns on the lamp and sits down. He drinks his coffee. Finally, he has an idea.
He starts typing on his laptop. He is writing a script for a film.
“Everything is silent,” he writes. “The security guard is sleeping. The secret letters are on the desk. The spy moves closer. Quietly, she —”
Bang! Dominic jumps. The coffee spills on the laptop. The laptop stops working. The screen says: “Error!”
There are green and yellow lights outside the window. People are clapping. Dominic’s neighbour is having a party. She is a famous film director. Bang! Another firework explodes in the director’s garden.
In the bin, beside Dominic’s desk, there is a letter. It says: “Please come to my party. We’re celebrating my new film, ‘Sorry, Mr Spy’. Your script is about a spy too, isn’t it? Please tell me about it!”
Dominic closes the curtains. He cleans the laptop. He turns it off, then he turns it on again. It’s working.
He starts a new script.
“The film director is having a party,” he writes. “Her new film, ‘The Apology’, is very popular. In the middle of the party, her neighbour arrives.
“He’s angry. ‘Your films are rubbish,’ he says. ‘Popular, but rubbish. I’m writing a script that is brilliant. But I can’t finish it, because you’re making so much noise!’
“The next day, the director comes to apologise. She wants to read his script. But he closes the door. Finally, the director of ‘The Apology’ feels sorry. The End.”
Dominic smiles. Then he clicks Delete.
The next day, someone knocks on Dominic’s door. It’s the director.
“Your new script is fantastic!” she says.
“What?”
“The director who feels sorry! I love it.”
Dominic runs to his laptop. His script is still there. The laptop is emailing the script to everyone in his contacts. The screen still says: “Error!”
“But I —”
“What a brilliant idea, Dominic, to make the film here, in my garden! Everyone’s ready – we’re starting today. I know, we work too hard – but we have a lot of parties too! Dominic? Are you alright?”
It is dark. There is no moon in the sky. Two people walk quickly towards the school. It is an old building made of stone. It looks almost like a castle.
They stop at the main entrance.
“Third door —” the man says. He is scared. He can’t speak.
“You’re safe here,” says the woman.
The man breathes. “Go through the main hall. Then it’s the third door on the left.”
The man offers her a torch. “Take this.” She pushes it away.
“But it’s dangerous, Miss Steel! The previous person who…”
“I can’t use it. In my profession, Headmaster… I must work in the dark. My… tools… are in my bag.”
The man’s face is white. “I don’t want to know what’s in there,” he says. “Please just solve our… problem.”
“Just send the second payment on time,” says Miss Steel. Then she steps inside the school. The door slams behind her.
There is no light at all. She can’t see anything. She touches the walls with her hands. The stone is cold.
She walks forwards. Her footsteps are loud. They are the only sound. She holds her bag close to her chest.
On the other side of the main hall, there is a long, narrow corridor. There are many doors on her left and right. She counts the doors. One, two, three. She stops. She holds her breath.
Under the third door, she can see some light. The light is very dim, with a pale purple colour. She listens. There is a tapping, scraping sound.
She enters the classroom. The door creaks loudly. The room is large, with many tables and chairs.
A little boy is sitting in one of the chairs. The purple light is coming from him.
Slowly, Miss Steel walks closer. She stands behind the boy. He is writing on a slate with a piece of chalk. She can see the white writing through the boy’s back.
She needs to be closer.
“Can I sit with you?” she asks quietly.
The boy doesn’t respond. The chalk taps and scrapes. Slowly, Miss Steel sits down. The boy is very cold. She can feel it.
“Are you another ghost killer?” says the boy suddenly. “I can hurt you too.”
“I don’t want to hurt you,” says Miss Steel quickly. Too quickly.
“Five hundred and seventeen thousand, two hundred and forty six,” says the boy. He is looking at the slate. There are numbers all over it. “Divided by forty-two thousand, eight hundred and twelve…”
“You’re… doing maths?”
“I’m bad at maths!” the boy cries. “So the professor punished me. He gave me this question. He said: ‘You can’t leave until you solve it!’ Five hundred and seventeen thousand…”
“And you’re still trying? How long…?”
“I don’t know… the candle is still… oh… where’s the candle?”
The boy looks around for the candle. He isn’t looking at Miss Steel.
Silently, Miss Steel opens her bag. Watching the boy, she searches inside her bag. Slowly, she takes out a small, black object. She puts it on the table.
“What’s that?” says the boy suddenly.
“It’s called a calculator.”
“Don’t go on holiday.”
Fredericka reads the message on her phone.
“Who is this?” she writes.
“I can’t tell you.”
Fredericka laughs. “Good joke,” she writes.
Fredericka puts down her phone. She thinks. Her assistant at work is always very funny. It must be her assistant.
There’s another message. “Don’t eat the sandwich.”
Fredericka looks at her sandwich. It’s a ham sandwich, with lettuce and tomatoes. It’s on a plate, on the table.
‘It must be my assistant,’ Fredericka thinks. ‘She knows I always eat a sandwich for lunch.’
Fredericka is hungry. She eats the sandwich.
The next day, Fredericka is ill. Fredericka doesn’t go to work. She stays at home.
Her phone makes a sound. There’s a new message. “Now do you believe me?”
“Stop this game,” Fredericka writes.
“Don’t go on holiday.”
“Why not?”
“I can’t tell you.”
“Why not?”
“I can’t tell you.”
Fredericka wants to go on holiday. There is a project at work that is very difficult. She needs to relax.
Fredericka buys her ticket. Then she packs her suitcase. She packs her sunglasses, her swimming costume and her favourite book.
At the weekend, Fredericka goes to the train station. She travels to the airport. At the airport, she receives a new message.
“Please be careful at the swimming pool.”
Fredericka turns off her phone.
Fredericka arrives at the resort. It’s a warm, sunny day. There is a luxurious swimming pool outside her hotel. She is excited. She puts on her sunglasses and her swimming costume.
She goes to the pool. The side of the pool is very wet. Suddenly, she falls. She is hurt. Many people come to help. They take her to the hospital.
She wakes up in bed. She can’t move. The doctor says she must rest.
One year later, Fredericka goes to work. She is in a wheelchair.
“Welcome back,” says her assistant. “I’m sorry about your accident. But there is some good news: the secret project is now complete.”
“How?” asks Fredericka.
“It’s impossible to send humans through time, right?” says the assistant.
“That’s my theory, yes.”
“Your theory is correct. But we can send messages through time!”
“Show me the calculations,” says Fredericka.
Her assistant gives her the papers.
“I see,” says Fredericka. “The message mustn’t reveal that it’s from the future.”
“Exactly,” says the assistant. “That’s important for safety.”
“Excellent work. Prepare the first test immediately.” Fredericka gives her phone to the assistant. “Here is the list of messages.”
Ferdinand arrives on holiday. He is very excited. He wants to see the city. He wants to go shopping. But he is very tired. He falls asleep in his hotel room.
Ferdinand gets up and leaves the room. But he is not awake. He is sleepwalking!
He walks down the stairs and into the lobby. His eyes are open, but he is asleep. It’s like a dream.
“Have a nice day,” says the woman behind the desk.
“Cabbages and potatoes!” says Ferdinand. (People say strange things when they are dreaming.)
Ferdinand goes outside. It is a beautiful, sunny day. He goes into an ice cream shop.
“Hello, sir,” says the seller. “Which ice cream would you like?”
“Cabbages and potatoes!” says Ferdinand.
“I’m sorry, sir, we don’t have that flavour. Try this one. It’s chocolate.”
Ferdinand takes the ice cream. “How much?” Ferdinand asks, slowly.
“Five,” says the seller.
“Five…” says Ferdinand, slowly.
Ferdinand gives the seller his wallet. The seller takes the money from the wallet, and gives it back.
Ferdinand eats his ice cream while he walks. Then he sees a souvenir shop. He goes inside. He picks up a pretty souvenir.
“How much?” Ferdinand says, slowly.
“Fifty,” says the shopkeeper.
“Five…” says Ferdinand.
“No, it’s fifty,” says the shopkeeper.
“Five!” says Ferdinand.
“Alright, thirty,” says the shopkeeper.
“Five!”
“Fine!” says the shopkeeper. “You tourists are becoming so clever!”
A few hours later… Ferdinand wakes up. He is in his hotel room. He smiles. “Now I can go shopping,” Ferdinand thinks. “I must buy a souvenir. They’re very cheap, here.”
Ferdinand gets out of bed. He is surprised. His room is full of shopping bags. There are so many shopping bags, he can’t move. He looks in his wallet. It is empty.
There is a note on the table. It says, “We bought all the things you asked for.” It is from the hotel staff.
Ferdinand looks in the shopping bags. They are all full of cabbages and potatoes.
Bob lives on his own. He likes his life to be peaceful and quiet. He has a routine. Every day, he meditates for an hour after work. Then he cooks a healthy meal, and watches an episode of The Gardening Show on television. Finally, he listens to classical music and goes to sleep.
One day, Bob cooks a tuna steak. Soon, it is ready to eat. He sits down, and picks up the knife and fork. Then he hears a sound: a soft tap. Someone is at his door. It’s very unusual. All his neighbours know that Bob likes to be alone.
Bob gets up and opens the door. As soon as the door is open, something small runs inside. Bob sees that it is a kitten. The kitten sits on Bob’s chair.
“Get out!” says Bob.
He runs towards the kitten. He tries to catch it. But the kitten is too quick. It jumps around like a grasshopper. Now it is on top of the fridge. Then it is under the sofa, in the sink, on his bed. Bob chases the kitten everywhere.
Eventually, Bob is sweating. He sits down and eats his tuna steak. The kitten comes and sits on the table in front of him. Bob looks at the kitten. It is thin and it has only one ear. It has ginger fur and big, bright eyes.
“Fine!” Bob says.
He cuts a piece of the tuna steak and gives it to the kitten. The kitten eats it with delight.
Several months later, Bob arrives home in the evening. “Welcome to my flat,” he says. He is speaking to a woman. She comes inside with him.
“This is a lovely flat,” the woman says. “Do you have flatmates? Or do you live alone?”
“Not exactly alone,” says Bob.
Two cats come to meet them. Bob kneels down and strokes them. They pur. One of them has black fur, and the other has ginger fur.
Then, eight kittens run towards them. They all meow at once. They’re hungry.
“What are their names?” asks the woman. The meowing is so loud, she almost has to shout.
“This one is called Peace,” he says loudly, stroking the black cat. “And this one is called Quiet.” He strokes the ginger cat. The woman sees that it has only one ear.
“Are you ready?” shouts Eliza’s husband.
“I’m choosing my clothes,” she replies.
“But it’s been two hours!”
Eliza uses some perfume. She is ready for the party with her friends. She goes downstairs and into the kitchen.
She hits her knee on the chair.
“Ouch!” she shouts.
“What?”
“Nothing!”
“Eliza, you have to wear your new glasses,” says her husband. “They are still in the box.”
“I don’t need glasses.”
“I’m over here, darling,” her husband says.
“I don’t like my glasses.”
“They are very elegant. You look very pretty with glasses.”
Eliza doesn’t respond. She goes to the dining room. Everything is ready for her guests. She puts some flowers in the vases, and she tidies the cushions on the sofas.
Her husband comes in.
“Why have you done that?” he asks.
“What do you mean?”
“There is a flower in each person’s drink. And all the cushions are on the coffee table.”
“That’s the new style,” Eliza says quickly. “It’s very modern.”
Her husband says goodbye. The party is for Eliza and her friends. “Enjoy the film,” says Eliza. Her husband leaves. He goes to the cinema.
A little while later, Eliza hears the doorbell. She wants to open the door, but she can’t find the key.
She takes a box out of her handbag. She takes her new glasses out of the box. She puts on the glasses. Now, she can see clearly. She opens the door.
“I love your new glasses!” says her friend.
Eliza and her friends have a wonderful party. Before they leave, everyone says that Eliza looks beautiful with her new glasses.
That night, Eliza’s husband comes home.
“Welcome home — Oh!” says Eliza.
She stops smiling and runs into the lounge. Her husband runs into the lounge as well. He looks very worried.
“What’s wrong?” he asks.
“Nothing,” says Eliza. “It’s just that… I didn’t realise…”
“Realise what?”
Eliza takes off her glasses. She smiles. She kisses her husband.
“You’re so handsome,” she says.
Josephine is travelling home to visit her family. She lives in a different country, so she is travelling by plane. She doesn’t want to return. She doesn’t like her country.
“I’ve been away for ten years,” Josephine thinks. “Maybe my country is better than I remember.”
Josephine arrives in her country. She leaves the plane. Immediately, she thinks: “It’s too hot here.”
She’s tired and hungry. She drives into the town. All of the restaurants are closed, except one. She goes inside. She is the only customer.
She looks at the menu. “I remember this food,” she thinks. “I don’t like the food in this country.”
The waiter asks for her order. He is a fat man with a beard. Josephine doesn’t like him.
“I would like the chicken with chips, please,” she says.
“We don’t have any more chicken,” says the waiter.
“Fine, please can I have the salmon with leeks.”
“Sorry, there are no more leeks.”
“What do you have?” asks Josephine.
“Soup with bread.”
“What kind of soup is it?”
“Chicken and leek soup,” says the waiter.
Josephine is very angry, but she speaks calmly. “Chicken and leek soup, please,” she says. “And a glass of water. You have water, right?”
The waiter leaves. Josephine waits for forty-five minutes. “Where is the soup?” she thinks. “This is worse than I remember.”
Finally, the waiter brings the food. The soup is red. It is tomato soup. Josephine is upset. She doesn’t like tomatoes. She eats the bread. It is hard and cold.
“I hate this country,” Josephine says. “I hope I can leave soon.”
The waiter sees that Josephine is upset, and still hungry. He brings her a dessert.
“It’s free,” he says. “I’m sorry about the soup.”
Josephine is surprised. The dessert looks really good. She remembers it is a special local dessert. Only people in her town know the recipe.
It was her favourite when she was a child. Her grandmother used to make it. She eats the dessert. It is delicious. She feels like a child again. She smiles at the waiter.
“It’s great to be home,” she thinks.
Every morning, Ariana wears a suit and goes to work in the city. But first, she always visits Little Hot Cup, a café on her street. They make the best coffee in the world.
Ariana sits and drinks her coffee for five minutes. It is quiet, and the coffee is delicious. She doesn’t enjoy her job. She works very hard. But she loves to drink her coffee. It’s her favourite time of the day.
One Monday, Ariana wakes up. She feels tired. She does not want to go to work. But she thinks about the coffee, and she feels happy.
She goes to Little Hot Cup. But when she arrives, something is wrong. The lights are off. The door is closed. There is a piece of paper on the door. It says “Permanently Closed”.
Ariana wants to cry. She looks through the window. The owner is sitting at a table. He looks sad too. Ariana goes inside.
“What happened?” she asks.
“My costs are too high,” the owner says. “I have to close.”
Ariana thinks she can help. “I’m an accountant,” she says. “Maybe I can help.”
“Really? That’s wonderful!”
The owner shows Ariana lots of numbers. “I don’t understand them!” he says.
But Ariana understands the numbers immediately. She gives the owner some ideas. She says “Good luck,” and she goes to work.
One year later… Ariana wakes up. She feels tired, but she thinks about Little Hot Cup. She goes there with a smile. The lights are on. The door is open. The smell of coffee is fantastic.
She goes in. She sits down and enjoys her coffee for five minutes. Then she goes to the little office at the back. She goes inside.
“Welcome to work,” says the owner. “Did I tell you? You’re the best accountant in the world.”
“Look after the hamster,” Elijah’s teacher says. She goes to eat.
Elijah sits in the classroom. He watches the small hamster. It runs in its wheel, very fast. ‘It’s lunchtime,’ he thinks. ‘I must feed it.’ He gives it some food and water. The hamster eats and drinks.
A little girl comes in. “Can I hold it?” she asks.
“Yes, but be careful,” he says.
Elijah picks up the hamster and gives it to the girl. It is warm and soft, and the girl smiles. But the hamster bites her finger. “Ouch!” she says, and she drops the hamster.
The small animal runs out the open door. “No!” Elijah shouts. He and the girl run after it. Elijah can only see its tail, when it runs into the grass. The hamster is gone.
Elijah is very worried. ‘I’m in trouble,’ he thinks.
He takes out his phone and calls his mum.
“Mum, do you love me?” he asks.
“Of course, Elijah,” she says.
“And will you always help me?” he asks.
“Yes, Elijah. What’s wrong?” she asks. She sounds worried.
He takes a deep breath. “How quickly can you buy a hamster and bring it to school?”
Lucy lives in a small town. There were parks, trees, and pretty houses. It was a great place to live.
But Lucy isn’t happy. She doesn’t know anyone. And she is always unlucky.
“If I win the lottery, I will be happy,” she thinks. “But I am always unlucky.”
One day, she has an idea.
“I won the lottery!” she tells everyone. But it wasn’t true.
People are surprised, and want to talk to her. She is happy. But she can’t tell the truth.
She has to buy gifts for everyone. She loses a lot of money. But she becomes friends with everyone in the town.
Then, a television company comes to her house. They want to talk about her good luck. Lucy is scared.
“I didn’t win,” she tells them.
They are shocked.
“But you buy so many gifts for everyone,” they say.
They tell Lucy’s story on the news. Thousands of people hear the story.
Now, Lucy is famous. People from all over the world hear about her. They understand that she is a kind woman who wants to have friends.
Lucy gets money from a company to write a book. In the book, she tells her whole story. She goes on television to talk about her book.
Soon, Lucy has a lot of money and friends. She is happy. And she never won the lottery.
Lily likes Luke, a boy in her class. He loves sport, but Lily doesn’t. Lily loves to read. She feels sad – she has no chance with Luke.
One day, Lily sees Luke drop a book. Lily is excited. Does Luke like to read? Then she sees the title of the book. It is called Everything About Sport.
But Lily has an idea. She picks up the book. She takes it home and reads all of it.
The next day, Lily sees Luke. She gives him back his book.
“I read your book,” she says.
Luke looks surprised. “Did you enjoy it?” he asks.
“I love to read,” says Lily. “Now I know about football, cricket, hockey and tennis. We can talk about them.”
Luke laughs. “But I don’t like sport,” he says.
“What?” says Lily.
“My parents and teachers tell me to play,” says Luke. “Actually, I love to read, too.”
“Really?”
“Come to the library with me. It’s my favourite place. I will show you a more interesting book than Everything About Sport.”
Matthew is learning to be a wizard. He thinks he can be a very good wizard. But he is in the bottom class.
One day, he tries a big spell. He wants to have wings, so he can fly. It will show his teachers that he is a strong wizard. But he makes a mistake!
Lots of ducks appear. They are not just normal ducks. They are very friendly ducks. They like Matthew very much. They go with him everywhere. They walk behind him. They hug him with their wings.
The school becomes very noisy. The ducks go into all the classrooms. They sit on the tables. They play with the pens and papers. They even go into the kitchen. They eat a lot of the food.
The students think it is very funny. They laugh and clap. They take photos of Matthew and the ducks. Matthew makes a lot of new friends. Everyone wants to talk to him.
But the headmistress does not laugh. She calls Matthew to her office. Matthew is very scared. He thinks he will be expelled.
In the headmistress’s office, Matthew is shaking. The headmistress is behind her desk. She looks at him. Then, she smiles.
“You are very good at magic,” she says. “You made fifteen ducks appear, with just one spell. Only a strong wizard can do that. You are ready for the top class.”
“There’s something unusual about this painting,” said the tour guide. “Can you see what it is?”
The tourists looked closely. Behind them, other tourists walked around the busy museum.
“It’s the paint. It’s thick,” a woman said, loudly. She was wearing sunglasses and a large hat.
“It’s an oil painting,” said the tour guide. “That’s normal.”
“It’s not realistic. The colours are dull.”
“It’s over three hundred years old. And you’re wearing sunglasses, madam.”
“Well, what then?” said someone else.
“The woman in the painting… no one knows who she is. But we can discover a lot about her, by looking closely. In fact, we can discover her deepest secret.”
“She was very intelligent,” said the loud woman’s son. The boy let go of his mother’s hand and stepped forward.
“Be quiet, Lewis,” said the mother. “You’re embarrassing me.”
“How do you know?” asked the tour guide.
“She has so many shelves full of books. There is a desk in the room, with paper and ink. She likes to study.”
“Very good!” said the tour guide. “The artist wanted us to notice those things. He’s telling us who she was.”
The other tourists nodded and looked impressed. The mother wasn’t looking.
“She loves to travel,” Lewis continued.
“Lewis!” said the mother. She turned to the tour guide. “I’m sorry about my son. I can’t teach him to be quiet.”
“I can see why that’s difficult for you,” said someone.
“Yes, he’s a very difficult child.”
“Why do you think she liked to travel?” the tour guide asked Lewis.
“The style of the room is European. But look around. The rug is Indian. That ornament is from Peru, I think. And the mirror looks —”
“Do as you’re told, Lewis!” said the mother, closing her handbag. “We’re leaving.”
After Lewis and his mother had left, a man asked, “But what was the secret?”
“Look in the corner.”
“Are those… children’s toys?”
“Yes! But why did the artist paint those? He’s telling us the woman had a child – their child. Their love was a secret, but he wanted us to know. Now, please follow me…”
“You must learn to be quiet!” the mother said to Lewis as they left the museum.
It was evening and the city was busy, loud and full of bright lights.
“But they still didn’t notice the real secret!” said Lewis.
“I’m glad they didn’t. After your father died, I wanted to burn the painting. But I’m glad I sold it, so I can still see it, from time to time.”
“But Father hated living in secret! He wanted people to understand you! That’s why he painted you realistically – without a reflection in the mirror!”
Miss Mouse was in her bedroom, in her house in the forest. Her house was inside a small log on the ground. It had four windows, a front door and a back door, and a little chimney.
Mouse was looking in her mirror. “My ears are so big,” she said sadly. “The other animals laugh at me.” She sighed.
Outside the log, Mr Fox was passing by. He heard what Mouse said. He walked closer, quietly.
“I wish I was like Butterfly,” Mouse continued. “Everyone loves Butterfly. She’s so pretty. Her wings are so attractive and colourful. And such small ears! Life is easy for her.”
“Excuse me,” said Fox.
Mouse jumped. She turned around. She could see one of Fox’s eyes in each window.
Fox’s voice was calm and friendly. “I feel sorry for you. I am very ugly too.” The Fox sighed very loudly. “Life is cruel. Mice can use the magic lake to become beautiful, but foxes can’t.”
“Magic lake?” asked Mouse. “What are you talking about?”
“There is a magic lake in the forest. When mice swim in the lake, they turn into butterflies. Didn’t you know?”
“No!” said Mouse, with wide eyes.
“Well, come out of your log, and I’ll take you there,” said Fox.
Mouse thought carefully. She looked in the mirror again. She saw her big ears.
“But I have to stay at home,” Mouse said. “I almost forgot. My nieces and nephews are visiting me after school. I have to wait for them.”
Now Fox’s eyes were wide. “That isn’t a problem at all,” he said. “I’ll carry you. We’ll go to the Mouse School first. Then we’ll all go to the magic lake together.”
Mouse’s little heart beat quickly while she put on her shoes. She opened the door. Fox was waiting patiently. Slowly, Mouse walked towards him.
When Mouse was in front of Fox’s mouth, he said, “How many nieces and nephews? How young?”
“I have twelve nieces and eight nephews,” said Mouse. “They’re all taking their final exams. They’re very cute.”
“I can’t wait to meet them.”
Mouse climbed onto Fox’s head.
“Go between those bushes, follow the river, then the school is in the field,” said Mouse.
Fox began to run. Mouse could see Fox’s tongue, licking his lips.
“I just need some water,” said Fox. “Running is hard work.”
“I’m sorry,” said Mouse. “It’s just over there.”
They could see the field between two large trees. Fox ran quickly.
There was a loud bang. Fox screamed. His foot was stuck in a trap.
Mouse jumped off Fox’s head, and began to walk home.
“Do you think I’m stupid?” she said.
Years ago, in a small town, there was a witch. The witch made it rain every day. In spring, summer, autumn and winter: rain, rain, rain, snow.
One day, an orphan called Beatrice went to the Town Hall. It was a large, beautiful building. It was built when Beatrice was a baby.
Beatrice said: “I want to find the witch. She has to stop the rain.”
There were seven men in front of her. They were the leaders of the town.
“Go and play outside,” said the oldest man.
“It’s too wet,” said Beatrice.
“Then stay inside,” said the old man.
“I want to help the town.”
The old man laughed. “You can’t help. It rains because of an evil witch. We tried to kill her. We failed – and we are men. You are a little girl.”
The rocks were wet. It was difficult to climb up the mountain. Beatrice climbed for hours. At the top, it wasn’t raining. It was dark now, but she saw the witch’s castle.
She knocked on the door. The witch opened the door.
“Come in, it’s cold outside!” said the witch.
Beatrice went inside. There was a fire. The castle was warm and cosy. The witch gave her a cup of tea and some hot cakes. Beatrice said thank you.
When Beatrice was dry, she said, “Please stop the rain.”
“Do you know why I made it rain?” asked the witch.
“They said you are evil.”
The witch laughed.
“Years ago, witches lived in the town with the people, did you know that?”
“No.”
“Everyone liked us. We used our magic to help the town. But one day, people started to say that magic was evil. Suddenly, no one liked us.
“They told us to go to the Town Hall. I didn’t go. But the other witches went there. They went inside. The Town Hall was empty. The people shut the doors, and set fire to the building.
“I used magic to make it rain. But it was too slow. The fire burned the Town Hall. There was nothing left.”
The witch looked at Beatrice.
“I’m sorry, dear. You are upset.”
“I’m fine,” said Beatrice. She was crying.
“Please don’t cry, my dear. I want to help you. I’ll do anything you ask.”
“Can I stay with you?” Beatrice asked. “And, please, don’t stop the rain.”
Mum and Dad were food critics, and they had a problem. Their baby girl wasn’t eating any of the food they gave her.
Dad squeezed a blob of baby food (called “Baby’s Delight” Pea and Plum) onto a spoon. All the food critic magazines said it was the best food for babies.
“Yum, yum!” said Dad to the baby.
The baby turned away.
“My darling,” he said, “Mummy and Daddy know best. We’re food critics. This is the best brand available.”
“Maybe she prefers more expensive brands?” said Mum.
So Dad left and came back with some new baby food. The box was very artistic. It said: “Little Treasures” Mango and Broccoli.
“Delicious!” said Mum to the baby. “I wrote an article about this last week. It’s a very fashionable flavour.”
But when she tried to feed it to the baby, the baby started to cry.
Dad looked worried. “What are we going to do? We’re giving her the best food, but she won’t eat!”
Then the baby saw some vegetables in the kitchen. She pointed to them. Mum picked up the baby and carried her into the kitchen. The baby looked at the vegetables. Her eyes were wide and full of wonder.
The baby pointed at a carrot.
“You want some of this, my sweetheart?” asked the Mum.
The baby smiled and nodded. Then she pointed again.
“With an apple?” asked Dad.
The baby grabbed it. Then she pointed to a bag of spinach.
“That combination is very unfashionable,” said Mum. “But if it’s what you want, sweetheart…”
Mum cooked the vegetables and mixed them together. When she fed it to the baby, the baby ate it happily. She clapped her hands and giggled.
Mum and Dad did not look happy. Mum was holding her hand against her forehead. Dad’s face was pale.
“She’s the daughter of two food critics…” said Mum.
“And she disagrees with us…” said Dad.
“It’s even worse!” cried Mum. She sat down.
Dad realised the terrible truth. “My God – she’s a chef!”
Dennis was dreaming about maths. The numbers and symbols were attacking him. He hadn’t done his homework. The questions were too difficult.
Dennis woke up. “My teacher will be mad at me, tomorrow,” he thought.
Then he heard a strange sound. It was like a pencil writing on paper. At first, he thought it was a ghost, and he was scared. Then he thought, “I’m still dreaming.” He fell asleep again.
In the morning, Dennis found a piece of paper on his desk. There were lots of numbers on the paper. They were the answers to his maths homework! He quickly copied the answers into his book. Then he went to school.
That evening, Dennis had more homework. He didn’t know how to solve the equations. But maybe he didn’t need to. He left the homework on his desk. In the morning, he found a note with all the answers.
“It’s a helpful ghost!” Dennis thought. “I don’t mind ghosts if they do my homework!”
Once again, he copied the answers quickly, then went to school.
A few weeks passed, and Dennis’s teachers were impressed. He had become an excellent maths student. All of his answers were correct. He solved all the equations. Dennis started to feel proud. He liked maths now.
One day, the teacher called Dennis to her desk.
“I know,” she said.
How did she find out about the ghost? Dennis had to tell the truth. “I didn’t ask the ghost to do it. But it was so helpful…”
“Ghost?” said the teacher. “Don’t lie, Dennis. I know your older sister is giving you the answers.”
“My sister?” said Dennis. “She isn’t helping me! It’s —”
“Read this question, Dennis!” shouted the teacher. She was angry.
“Two X minus four equals zero. What is X?” said Dennis.
“Now read your answer,” said the teacher.
Dennis read what he had written: “X equals four divided by two. Therefore X equals two, love from Susan.”
“Please can you get up, for a moment?” said Gerard to his girlfriend.
She was sitting on the sofa, reading her letters. She didn’t hear him. Gerard was using the vacuum cleaner. He started to clean the sofa.
“Sorry!” said his girlfriend.
She put down her letters and stood up. Gerard cleaned all of the cushions on the sofa.
His girlfriend tried to pick up her letters, but Gerard moved them. He used a cloth to wipe the table.
“Thank you,” said Gerard. He kissed her.
“I know you like it when our flat is very clean,” she said. “But it’s Saturday. Why don’t you relax?”
“It’s the first day of the month,” Gerard explained.
“Of course,” she replied. “Every month, you clean the whole house. Alright, how can I help?”
Gerard told her to wipe her desk. When she finished, he told her to wipe all the taps. Then he told her to wash all the curtains.
“Are we finished?” she asked, a few hours later.
“It’s the first day of spring,” Gerard explained.
“Of course. Every spring…”
“We have to wash the carpets.”
They pushed all the furniture out of the room. They put the table in the kitchen, the sofa in the bedroom and the plants in the bathroom.
Gerard brought water and soap, two sponges, and two hair dryers.
He and his girlfriend worked all afternoon and all evening. Finally, they pushed all the furniture back into the room.
“Now, we are finished!” said Gerard at last.
They were very tired. Their clothes were dirty. There was soap on their arms and legs. They sat down on the sofa.
Finally, his girlfriend picked up her letters again.
“This one is from our landlord,” she said.
“What does it say?”
“We have to leave in one month!” she cried. “And – and –”
“What is it?” cried Gerard.
“We have to pay for a company to wash the carpets before we leave.”
Jack lived in a small town. Everyone liked to live there, except Jack. Everyone thought it was a pretty town, except Jack.
Jack wanted to leave the country. He wanted to see new places. Beautiful places. So he bought a boat. That evening, he started his journey.
On the third night, there was a big storm. The wind and waves pushed his boat forward and backward, left and right. Very quickly, he was lost.
Jack woke up on an island. It was beautiful. There were trees with tasty fruit, and lots of fish in the sea. Jack was alone, but he was happy.
“This country is beautiful,” Jack said to himself. “This is where I wanted to live.”
One day, he climbed a tall tree. He looked around and saw something. There were lights in the distance. He looked carefully. Then he was surprised.
“That’s my town!” he said. “That’s my house!”
His island was not far from his town. He laughed. His country was more beautiful than he knew.
Jack returned to his boat. He went home. He was happy to see his neighbours again. That evening, they had dinner together.
His adventure had taught him something important. Sometimes, what we’re looking for is closer than we think.
The private detective sat at his desk. No one had hired him for a long time. When a woman entered the office, he almost fell off his chair.
“Excuse me, are you the detective?” she asked.
“That’s correct. How can I assist you, madam?”
“I want you to follow a suspicious individual,” she said.
“This sounds interesting,” said the detective. “Tell me more.”
He was excited. It was the big case he’d been waiting for.
“He has a round face, a big nose, and small ears. He is always going into other people’s gardens and sometimes into their houses.”
“That is terrible,” said the detective. “What else?”
“He is often watching me, or following me around. I think he is spying on me.”
“What secrets are you keeping?” the detective asked.
“I’m not telling you that!” the woman said angrily.
“What I mean is: why is someone spying on you?” the detective said calmly.
“You’re the detective. You should tell me. But I do have an idea.”
“Yes?”
“He never speaks, and he walks on his hands and his feet. It’s very strange. I think he could be an alien.”
The detective realised this wasn’t the big case he’d been waiting for.
“Where can I find this alien?” he said.
“In my house,” said the woman. “He’s my cat.”
“I see,” the detective said. He opened the door for her.
But the woman had written a number on a piece of paper. “This is how much I will pay you for the investigation,” she said.
The detective slammed the door.
“When would you like me to start?” he asked.
Joe had a job at a supermarket. He wanted a promotion, but his boss always said, “Joe, you are not talented.”
One day, a man asked Joe to help him.
“I need chillies, herbs and spices,” he said.
“Follow me, sir,” Joe said.
Joe found the items quickly.
“Next, I need bread and chocolate,” said the man.
Joe thought for a moment. He realised the man was making a Mexican dish. Joe’s mom was from Mexico. She showed him how to make the dish. He had cooked it many times. Every time, he made it better.
“I know this dish,” said Joe. “I use a special ingredient.”
“What is it?” asked the man.
Joe wrote his recipe on a piece of paper, and gave it to the man. The man was very excited.
Joe’s boss found him. “Joe, you are wasting time. You should be at the till,” she said. Joe said goodbye to the man.
The next day, the man came back. Joe’s boss said, “Yesterday, you wasted time because of him. Don’t talk to him. Tell him to leave.”
But the man had a surprise. He took off his hat and glasses.
Now, Joe and his boss recognised the man. He was a famous chef.
“Joe, your recipe was delicious,” he said. “You are very talented. I want you on my television show.”
They left in the chef’s fancy car. Joe could hear his boss shouting: “I said don’t talk to him!”
One sunny day, a red balloon was in the park with a young girl. Suddenly, the balloon left her hand and went up into the sky.
“Come back!” the girl said.
It wanted to go down again. But the balloon went up and up.
First, it floated over the trees. There was an old bird resting at the top.
“Don’t go higher,” said the old bird. “You won’t like it.”
“I have to,” said the balloon.
The balloon floated above the park. It saw children playing and laughing. Some of them were playing football. There was one boy who was on his own. He was watching the children play. The other children weren’t playing with him.
It moved higher and saw a market. There, it saw people buying and selling things. They looked busy. There was a large family at the grocery store. The father was buying lots of fruits and vegetables for their dinner.
Then, the balloon rose very high. It saw the whole city below. It saw big houses and small houses. It saw rich people and poor people, old people and young people.
They all looked different, but they also looked the same. They laughed, cried, and had dreams.
Finally, the balloon began to lose air. Slowly, it started to come down. It was falling into a park again. It looked like the same park.
But when the balloon arrived, it wasn’t sure. The grass and the trees were the same, but they looked different. The girl wasn’t there. The balloon missed her.
Nicholas moved into a big, old house. Three hundred years ago, a famous pirate lived there.
Inside, many things were broken. “I’ve got a lot of work to do,” Nicholas thought.
He painted the walls, fixed the stairs and changed the carpets. That was when he found the gold key. It was underneath the carpet in the living room. It looked very old.
“Wow, it must be the key to the pirate’s treasure!” Nicholas thought.
Nicholas searched all over the house. He looked in the kitchen, the bedrooms and the bathroom. But there were no hidden cupboards or secret doors. He searched around the outside of the house, and even on the roof, but he couldn’t find a keyhole.
Nicholas couldn’t find the treasure. The pirate had won.
Then Nicholas had an idea. He wrote a letter to the person who lived in the house before him. He asked her if she knew anything about the pirate, or the key, or a secret door. “If you help me, I’ll share the treasure with you,” he wrote.
A week later, an old woman came to his door.
“Please come in,” Nicholas said. He offered her a drink and they sat down.
Then the woman took an old wooden box from her bag. It looked heavy and strong. She put it on the table. It had a big keyhole.
Nicholas stood up quickly. He was very excited as he gave her the key. She put the key in the keyhole and turned it. Then she opened the box.
Nicholas looked for the gold coins. But there was nothing inside, except an old letter. He sat down, disappointed.
“What a waste of time,” he said.
“I haven’t read this letter in fifty years,” said the woman. Her hands her shaking. She held the letter close to her heart. Nicholas saw that she was crying.
Nicholas didn’t know who wrote the letter. But he could see that it really was a treasure. He thought, “I hope she will share it with me.”
A long time ago, life was dangerous. There was a small town in the desert. A man called Mark lived there. Mark’s job was to keep the town safe.
When dangerous criminals came to the town, Mark had to stop them. Sometimes, he had to use his gun. He didn’t like doing it, but there was no choice.
Mark did the job for forty-five years. Then the people said he was too old to keep them safe. They said “Thank you” to Mark, then gave Mark’s gun to a young man called Joe.
“I’ll teach you,” Mark said to Joe.
“You’re old and tired,” said Joe. “What can you teach me? Nothing.”
One day, a criminal came to the town. No one knew his name. But they knew what he had done, in the nearby towns. There, a lot of people tried to stop him. He killed all of them. When their children cried, he laughed. People called him ‘the Wolf’.
Now, the Wolf was here. He was walking through the streets with his gun. At each house, he knocked on the door. If they didn’t open the door, he shot through the door. If they did open the door, he told them to give him their money. He put the money in his bag.
Then the Wolf arrived at Joe’s house. He knocked on the door. The door opened. Joe was standing there. “Wait!” said Joe. “Please don’t shoot me. Take my money. Take everyone’s money.”
“Stop that right now,” shouted Mark.
Mark was standing in the empty street. The Wolf turned around. Joe closed the door quickly. The Wolf walked into the middle of the street. He turned towards Mark and smiled.
“Or what?” said the Wolf.
“Or I’ll stop you,” said Mark.
“You’re an old man. What can you do? Go and rest in your bed.”
Mark shot the Wolf.
“You shot me!” shouted the Wolf, surprised. He fell down.
“I’m too old and tired to wait,” said Mark. “I say this. You say that. We look at each other. No one moves. The street is quiet. Who will shoot first? And so on.”
Mark put away his father’s old gun. He walked forward, and took the Wolf’s bag. Everyone came and took their money. “Thank you, Mark,” they said. When the bag was empty, Mark dropped it next to the criminal. The Wolf was dead.
“Mark?” said Joe. “I’m sorry. Will you teach me?”
“Tomorrow,” said Mark. “I’m tired.”
Everyone agrees this is the most beautiful garden. Only one person knows how long this garden has been here.
He tells anyone who wants to hear the story. We believe him because he is the oldest man in our village.
The story never gets old though. It is one of the best and most fascinating stories I’ve ever heard. I guess you are curious and you want to know what it is about.
                                                          *****
Once upon a time there was a very rich family in this same village. They were not the wealthiest people in the country but they had a lot of land and cattle. Their food baskets were the fullest and their clothes were made from the most colourful and expensive fabrics any one could get.
However, they were not happy. In fact, they were the unhappiest family in the village and no one could understand.
Isn’t their property enough to make them cheerful?

They walked about with slumped shoulders and sad eyes. No laughter came out of their mouths and no joy could be seen in their home. Their conversations were dull and full of melancholy.
One day, the head of the family decided to do something about their problem. He called his younger brother.
“ My dear brother Misozi, listen to me. I think I’ve found the solution to our troubles.”
 “Do not tell me that Mavuto. Our problems are the worst in the whole world and we will never be able to solve them.”
“ This will work, believe me.”
 “ I hope this will not turn out to be the craziest scheme you have ever come up with.”
“ Don’t worry. Just wait and see. You will be the most surprised person in the entire universe.”
The following day, Mavuto chose a piece of land not far from their house. It was dry and full of weeds. No one wanted to use it because it was difficult to tame.
 “ I will turn this into the most beautiful garden anyone has ever seen.”
Like a mad man, he started digging and digging, removing stones and rubbish so as to prepare the ground for planting. He watered the ground every single day until it became soft and luscious. Soon, it was time to plant flowers, trees and vegetables.

His mood got better as time passed. He laughed more and his happiness was contagious. Later on, his wife and children joined and helped him to take care of the garden. What a sight! The complaints and fights had disappeared. What remained was the loveliest family in the whole village. The children shrieked with unfettered joy and the adults no longer shouted at one another for no reason at all. It was the most beautiful thing to see.
A lot of time has passed since then. The old man says that the garden has been tended by at least three generations. Today, the family is not as affluent as it used to be. Rumour has it that they say that the garden is their most valuable possession. They take care of it as if it was an egg that could break at any moment.
The most beautiful garden in the village is the key to their happiness.
My name is Robinson. I am from England. I am eighteen years old. My father is German. My mother is English. I have two brothers. I have one sister. We are a good family. My father is a good businessman. We have money. I have a good school. I have a good life. But I have a dream. I want to travel. I want to see the world. My father is a good man. He wants the best for me. But my dream is not his dream. He is not happy. The situation is not easy. It is morning. My father is in his room. He wants to speak with me. I go to his room. My father has some questions. My father wants to know why I want to travel. My father says, “Travelling is dangerous. Travelling is not comfortable. You can die.” I think about it. Travelling is dangerous. It is not comfortable. I can die. But it is also very interesting. I can see new countries. I can meet new people. I think about travelling every day. Maybe my mother can help me. I speak with my mother. I tell my mother, “I want to travel. I want to see the world. Please, speak with my father. Maybe with your help, I can travel.” My mother loves me. But she thinks that travelling is dangerous. She thinks that my place is at home. She thinks that life in England is the best for me. One year later, I visit one big town. The name of this town is Hull. I meet my friend. His father has a ship. They travel to London. My friend tells me, “Go with me.” I think about it. I am not prepared. But I can try if travelling is for me. I go to London. I am very happy. It is my first long journey. It is very interesting. The first hour is good. But then we have problems. We see a storm. The storm is big. The wind is strong. The ship goes up and down. I have fear. I think about my home. I think about my comfortable bed. The storm is finished in the morning. The weather is nice. And the evening is beautiful. Everything is quiet. One man comes to me. We speak. We speak about the storm. I speak about my fear. The man gives me a drink. I drink very much. I sleep very well at night. The next day, I forget about my home. I forget about my comfortable bed. I dream more about travelling. CHAPTER 2 – STORM The next day, our ship is slow because the wind is not strong. Then the wind is strong again. We go fast. A new storm comes. This storm is bigger. I am scared. The men are scared too. The waves are very big. The waves are like mountains. I see other ships. The ships are like toys. The waves play with the ships. I want to go home again. The storm is very big. The men ask God for help. Then, one man sees a hole in the ship. Water is inside. It is a bad situation. Many men go down. They pump the water out. I am very scared. I can’t move. One man comes to me. He says, “Go down and help.” So I go down. We pump the water out. I hear a gun. It is a signal from our captain. It is a signal that we have a big problem. Our ship is very broken. Our ship is full of water. We work very hard. We pump the water out. But the hole is very big. More and more water is inside the ship. The weather is better. The waves are smaller. But the ship is full of water. We need help. We see another ship before our ship. The men from the ship send a small boat. The men on the boat go to our ship. The men help us. We go on their boat. Fifteen minutes later, our big ship goes under water. We are safe on the small boat. We see a land. We go to the land. We see people on the beach. They wait for us. They help us. They give us some money. We can go to London or Hull. I go to London. When I am in London, I meet a captain. The captain goes to Africa. I think that I can make some money there. The captain tells me about the business in Africa. He tells me what to buy in England. He tells me what people in Africa need. The journey to Africa is very good. I have a lot of money after this journey. I am happy. I want to travel more. I want to do more business. I want to learn how to control the ship. The captain teaches me how to control the ship. I go to Africa again. The journey starts well. But soon we have big problems. We see a ship. It is not an English ship. It is a pirate ship. The pirates want to take our ship. Their ship is fast. Soon, they are near our ship. The pirates attack us. Many pirates go on our ship. They kill our men. We can’t win. We stop the fight. Now, we are prisoners. CHAPTER 3 – WOMAN I am young and strong. I must work as a slave. I work for the captain of the pirates. I feel very sad. I have a bad life. I must work hard. I work every day. I work in the house. I work in the garden. The captain tells me what to do. I don’t like my work. I want to change my situation. I want to be free again. It is morning. I meet a young woman. She works in the house. She is so beautiful. She is also a slave. She cleans the house. I speak with her. She doesn’t speak my language. But I feel that she understands me. When she sees me, she is happy. And I am happy too. Sometimes she touches me. But it is only a short moment. Slaves can’t be together. I think about the young woman very often. I want to meet her every day. But she is not in the house every day. When I think about her, I have a nice feeling in my body. I think that I love this woman. I think that she is my girlfriend and I am her boyfriend. But our love is complicated. We can’t live together. It is very sad. Sometimes I fish with the captain or his friends. A young boy helps us. We use a small boat when we fish. One morning, when we fish, we are lost. Fog is around our boat. We see nothing. We can’t go home. The next day, the fog is away. We can go home. When we are back home, the captain says, “Use a bigger boat.” The bigger boat is better for long journeys. One day, the captain tells me, “Put more food and drinks on the boat. Bring some guns too.” The captain wants to fish with his friends. I prepare the boat. I put food and guns on the ship. But the captain’s friends don’t want to fish. Then, the captain tells me, “Prepare the boat for usual fishing for the next day.” This is my chance. I can run away. A lot of food and guns are on the boat. I prepare the boat for fishing. But I leave the food and guns on the boat. Tomorrow, I can run away. This is my plan. I think about the young woman. I want to take her with me. But I don’t know how to do it. It is not possible to take her on the boat. I am sad. I don’t know what to do. I want to be free. But my heart wants to be with her. It is the morning. I meet the young woman in the house. She is so beautiful. I look at her. She knows that something is different. Maybe she understands that this is our last moment together. She looks in my eyes. She touches my hand. I think that she understands. Her face is sad. My face is sad too. She smiles at me. Then, she goes away. This is our last moment together. CHAPTER 4 – LION One hour later, we are ready. I and the boy go to the boat. One man goes with us. He is our boss for today. Soon, we are far from the land. But we can’t catch fish. Then, we go very far from the land. Our boss thinks that we can catch fish there. At one moment, our boss goes to the front of the boat. I quickly push him to the sea. He wants to swim back. I take a gun. When he sees the gun, he swims away. When he is away, I look at the boy. I want to know if he is on my side. I see that he is on my side. After two years, I am free. We go very fast. The wind is good. The next day, we are far from the pirate land. But we don’t stop. We continue. After six days, we must stop. We need some fresh water. We wait for the night. Then, we go to the land. When we are near the land, we hear horrible noises. The boy doesn’t want to continue. He is scared. We stay on the boat near the land. But we can’t sleep. Some animals come to wash in the water. The animals make horrible noises. The boy is very scared. Then, we hear that one animal swims to us. The boy wants to go away. But I don’t want to go away. I take one gun. I shoot at the animal. The animal turns. Then, the animal swims to the land. The other animals hear the gun. They go away too. We stay on the boat. It is morning. We eat bread for breakfast. The boy wants to go to the beach. I go with him. We take guns. We take big bottles for water. I don’t go very far. I want to see the boat. The boy continues alone. The boy returns after some time. He runs. I think that some animal runs after him. But I see nothing dangerous. He has an animal in his hand. The animal is a chicken. He is very happy. I am happy too. We have good meat and fresh water. We don’t see dangerous animals. I don’t know where we are. I only know that we are near Africa. I think that we are near a land where no people live. We don’t see people on the land. We only hear animals. One day, when we go for fresh water, we see a lion. The lion sleeps on the beach. He is very big. He is only 20 metres from us. The boy is scared. Then, the lion opens his eyes. When the lion sees us, he runs to us. We don’t have much time. I must shoot at the lion. I have three guns. The first bullet hits his leg. The second bullet hits his head. The third bullet finishes the animal. We can’t eat the meat. The meat is not good. But we take the skin. We put the skin on the boat. The skin is dry soon. CHAPTER 5 – SHIP We continue our journey. We stop only when we need fresh water. Soon, we see that people live on the land. One day, we see a big group of people. They are on the beach. They have many children. They watch us. I want to stop. I want to go to the people. But the boy doesn’t like this idea. He is scared. The people want to give us some food. Two people run to the forest. They return with some food. We don’t want to go to the beach. But they don’t want to swim to us. We don’t know how to take the food. The people see this. They put the food on the ground. Then, they go back. When they are far from the food, we go to the food. Now, we are not scared of the people. They come to us. We thank the people. But we have nothing for the people. At that moment, we see two animals. The animals run down from the hill. The people are scared. One animal attacks a young girl. I shoot at the animal. I kill the animal. The second animal is scared. The animal runs away. The people are shocked when they hear the gun. They are also shocked when they see that the animal is dead. The people are happy that the girl is alive. They thank us. They give us more food and water. Now, we have a lot of food and water on the boat. We continue our journey. The next day, we see some islands. I think that we can visit the islands. But at that moment, the boy starts to shout. He starts to shout because he sees a ship. The boy is really scared. He thinks that it is a pirate ship. But I look at the ship. I see that the ship is Portuguese. But nobody on the ship sees us. So I shoot from a gun. They hear the gun. They see us. Soon, we are on the Portuguese ship. They speak Portuguese, Spanish and French. But I don’t understand the men. But one Scottish sailor is on the ship. He comes to me. I tell him our story. Then all the sailors are very nice. We can stay on the ship. We are very happy. We offer our boat to the captain. But the captain doesn’t want to take the boat. He wants to pay for the boat. It is very nice. I tell him that he can buy our boat. I give him a good price. It is a half of usual price. The captain agrees. The captain also wants to train the boy as a sailor. I don’t like this idea. I think that the boy is very young for this job. I think that the boy also needs freedom. But the captain says that it is good for the boy. CHAPTER 6 – WIFE The boy wants to work for the captain. So the boy starts to be a sailor. The ship is on the way to Brazil. We come to Brazil after twenty days. I say goodbye to the boy and the sailors. Brazil is a new state in South America. Many people start a new life here. It is the same for me. I know nobody here. I meet some people. They have sugar plantations. Soon, we are good friends. I like Brazil very much. Soon, I learn the language. I have some money from the captain. I buy a small land in Brazil. I start to produce sugar. I don’t produce much at the beginning. But after two years, my plantation is big. I am single. But my life is good. My financial situation is better every month. After three years in Brazil, I have enough money. I can have a woman for cleaning my house. I ask my friends if they know a good woman. One friend says, “I have a daughter. She is eighteen years old. I think that she can work for you. She is also a very good cook.” The next day, his daughter comes to my house. She is friendly. But she is shy. She is also a very pretty girl. We talk. I tell her what I need. The next day, she comes to my house. She cleans the dirty floor. She cleans my furniture. She comes to my house every morning on Monday and on Thursday. She works for 4 hours. She also cooks for me. She also gives food to my cat. I am always happy when I see the girl. Sometimes we have breakfast or lunch together and we talk. Then, she is ill. She can’t come to my house. I feel a strange feeling when she is not in my house. I miss her. I think, “Maybe, I love her.” One week later, she comes to my house. I am happy when I see her. I see that she is happy too. I hug her. Then I kiss her. It is a long kiss. Two weeks later, I go to her father’s house. I ask him if I can marry his daughter. He is quiet. I wait for his answer. Then he says, “I agree.” I am very happy. Two months later, I marry the daughter of my friend. We start to plan a family. This part of my life is great. We have big plans for our family. We have big plans for our plantation. We need a bigger house. We need more money for a bigger house. I think about the business in Africa. I can make a lot of money in Africa fast. I speak about Africa with my friends very often. I tell my friends that we can make a lot of money in Africa. CHAPTER 7 – HURRICANE One day, three friends come to our house. They tell me that they want to go to Africa. They ask me if I want to go with them. I say, “Yes, I want to go with you.” We start to prepare for the journey. Soon, we are ready. I say goodbye to my wife. Then we go. We want to come back two months later. We leave Brazil in September. Our ship is very big. But we are only seventeen men. The ship is full of things for business. The weather is good but very hot at the beginning. One week later, we see a hurricane. The hurricane is very strong. Our ship is in danger. The hurricane is finished after three days. But when the hurricane is away, we have a problem. The ship is broken. We can’t go to Africa. The captain wants to go back and repair the ship. But I don’t want to go back. We talk about it. We think about the best solution. Then in the evening, a second hurricane comes. The wind is strong. The waves are very big. Then one man shouts, “Land!” When the man shouts “Land!”, the ship stops. The sea is not deep enough. It is bad for our broken ship. The ship can break every second. We must go on a smaller boat. This is very dangerous because the boat is very small for 17 men. But we must do it if we want to survive. So we go on a small boat. The waves are very big. The wind is very strong. The wind pushes us to big rocks. We know that the crash is near. Then, a big wave comes. The wave turns the boat. I am under water. I can’t breathe. I don’t see the other men. I don’t see the boat. Then, my head is above water. It is only a short moment. But I can breathe. I see a small beach between the rocks. A big wave pushes me to the beach. I am still in water. But I feel a land under my feet. I know that I must stand up. I must get out of the water. The next wave can take me back to sea. But my body is weak. I can’t stand up fast. The next wave comes. I am under water again. I can’t breathe again. But then another wave takes me back on the beach. I am in water. But I can stand up. I can go ten metres. I am on the sand. I am safe. But my arms and legs are very weak. I collapse. And I lie on the beach. After some time, I stand up. I look for the other men. I can’t find the other men. I am the only man alive. All my friends are dead. I only find three hats and two shoes on the beach. It is horrible for me. CHAPTER 8 – ISLAND The weather is still very bad. But the waves are not so big. I see the ship. The ship is far from the land. I look around. I see that I have nothing. I am wet. I have no other clothes. I have nothing to eat or drink. I have no gun. Dangerous animals can eat me. I have only a small knife which I find in my pocket. This situation is really bad. How can I survive with only a small knife? I need to drink some fresh water. I find a small river. I drink the water. The night comes. I am scared of dangerous animals. I can’t sleep on the ground. So, I spend the night in a big tree. When I wake up the next morning, the sea is calm. I still see the ship. I swim to the ship. I don’t see a way inside the big ship. I swim around the ship twice. Then I see a rope on one side of the ship. I use the rope. Now, I am on the ship. The ship is empty. I try to find some food. I am lucky. Some food on the ship is dry. I also find a bottle of rum. I take the bottle with me. Then I hear something. Somebody is on the ship. Who is it? Somebody from my friends? It is not possible. My friends are all dead. I am scared. I go to the place where I hear the noises. Then I see who it is. It is a dog. It is a dog of our captain. Now, I have a friend. I am not alone. I must take the food, rum and the dog to the beach. But I don’t have a small boat on the ship. I must make a raft. I find some wood. I make a raft from the wood. I also need some clothes. I look for the clothes. When I look for the clothes, I find a nice carpet. I also find four guns and a box with gunpowder. I put everything on my raft. The sea is calm. The wind goes to the land. This is all good. Soon, I am on the beach. I look for a place where I can stay. I see a hill. From the hill, I can see where I am. I take a gun. I walk to the hill. I go to the top. I see sea around the whole place. I am on an island. I see two small islands near. One is to the north. One is to the west. I also see a big land to the south. The land is about 100 kilometres far. I see nothing to the east. I see only the ocean. I don’t see people on the island. I see only wild animals. CHAPTER 9 – TENT I see many birds on the way back from the hill. But I don’t know their names. I don’t know if I can eat them. I kill one bird. But the meat isn’t good. I go back to the raft. The next day, I want to go back to the ship. I want to take all important things to the island. The next storm can destroy the ship completely. I make a small tent near the beach. I bring the things which can be destroyed by rain to the tent. The night comes. I lie on the ground. I put two guns near my left shoulder. I also put two guns near my right shoulder. Now, I feel safe. I am tired. I sleep very soon. I swim back to the ship the next day. I make a second raft. I put many things on the raft. I am very happy when I find seven new guns and some beds. I take all these things to the beach. I go to the ship every day. I bring back many good things. For example, I find a lot of candles. I need candles on the island. I also find two big boxes of tea. I make a lot of visits to the ship. One day, I discover a box which is closed. Under the box, I find a key. When I open the box, I see some money from Europe and Brazil. Money is not important on the island. But I take the money with me. I also find cards with pictures. They are pictures of the king and the queen. I can play some games. I can have some fun with the cards. The next day, big dark clouds are in the sky. They are bigger and bigger. The wind is stronger and stronger. I visit the ship. But I don’t make a raft because a storm is near. Rafts can break easily in a storm. I swim back to the beach. The wind is really strong at night. But I am safe inside my little tent. The ship is gone the next morning. I know that I can stay on the island very long. I want to make a nice place where I can live. I also need to be safe. I can look for a cave. Or I can make a bigger tent. Maybe, I can do both. I need a place which is near fresh water. The place must be in shadow. It must be easy to protect the place. I also need a view of the sea. I want to see ships. I find a nice place next to a big hill. I put my tent there. The hill protects me from one side. I build a fence on all the other sides. The fence has no door. I use a ladder when I go over the fence. I take all my things inside. I have more plans in my head. I make two tents. One tent is big. The second tent is small. The smaller tent is inside the bigger tent. The bigger tent protects the gunpowder and the food from rains. I live in the smaller tent. CHAPTER 10 – CALENDAR When the tents are finished, I start to make a cave at the bottom of the hill. I want to use the cave for food. I bring stones and earth from the cave to the fence. I make a terrace on the inside of the fence. I still work on the cave when a storm comes one day. I see lightning during the storm. I think that the lightning can hit my boxes with gunpowder. The explosion can destroy everything. The explosion can also kill me. I am scared. I need to make a change. After the storm, I open the boxes with the gunpowder. I put the gunpowder in smaller boxes and bags. I hide the boxes and bags in the rocks. I have a lot of gunpowder, so this takes three days. I also hunt every day. It is a break from the hard work. And I also need some meat. When I hunt, I also start to know the island more. I discover some goats. I hunt them. Now, I have enough meat. I am sad sometimes. I think about my wife. I miss her very much. I think about my friends in Brazil. I think about my parents. I know that travelling by sea can change your life completely. Travelling can be great. But travelling can be horrible too. I know that my friends from the ship are dead. I know that I am the only person alive. I am lucky. I am also lucky because I have all the things like food, guns and clothes. I can’t survive without these things. I decide to make a big cross. I put the cross on the beach. I write on the cross the date of my first day on the island. I want to keep information about time. The cross is my calendar. I make a small cut in the cross every day. Every Sunday, the cut is longer. This cut shows the end of the week. The last day of every month is also a long cut. One day, I think about my situation. I have negative thoughts. This is not good. I want to change my negative thoughts. I decide to write all good and bad things. First, I write what is bad. I am alone on this island. I have nobody for a conversation. I have only a small chance that I can see England again. But I am alive. I am safe. I have my freedom. I have enough food. This is all positive. I don’t have good clothes, but I don’t need a lot of clothes on this island. I have my dog. He understands some words. He understands when I say, “Sit down. Come here. Bring it. Don’t jump. Don’t do it.” I see that my situation is not perfect. But I have also some good things in my life. I need to concentrate on positive things only. I continue to make my place better and better. I make the cave bigger. I have space for many things in the cave. I am happy because my life is now well organized. CHAPTER 11 – BOOK I need to make some furniture. I need a chair and a table. I use the wood from my rafts and the ship. It takes five days to make them. Then, I make more furniture for the cave. I put my clothes and guns in the cave too. I am very happy when my work is finished. The cave is comfortable now. Everything is well organized. I can easily find what I need. I decide to write a book about my life on the island. I describe my days in the book. I start with my first day on the island. I write everything what I remember. I also write what I think. It is good when I write my thoughts on paper. When I start, I write one page every day. But when I get to the present, I write only one page every week. I write only important things. After some time on the island my life is well organized. But my life is never boring. I have always some work. Every morning, I walk around the island. Then I work. I have lunch at noon. Then I sleep, but not very long. Then I continue with my work. I relax or I write my book in the evening. I make my cave bigger and bigger. I want to have a big cave. The cave is my kitchen, living room and sometimes a bedroom. When the cave is finished, a lot of earth falls from one side. I am not in the cave when it happens. If a lot of earth falls on me, I can die. I clean the cave. Then I decide to put long boards on the sides and also on the top. I don’t want to have this accident again. This work takes one week. In December, I continue with my work in my small camp. The weather isn’t very good. It rains all days. But it is still warm. So I work inside. It is never cold on the island. It is good for me. At the end of December, I kill a goat. I also hurt another goat. Her leg is broken. The goat can’t walk. I take the goat home. I help the goat. After two weeks, the goat is not scared. The goat eats from my hand. In January, I travel through the island. I find more goats in the centre of the island. The animals are very shy. It is difficult to get close to them. I want to domesticate some goats. I only need a good opportunity for it. I have a plan. The next day, I return with my dog. I think that my dog can help me hunt. I tell my dog, “Sit down. Wait. Don’t move.” CHAPTER 12 – CORN When the goats are between me and my dog, I hide behind a tree. Then I shout at my dog, “Come here.” My dog runs to me and the goats too. I wait in my position behind the tree. When one goat runs close to me, I jump and I catch her leg. I hold her right leg. But then the goat kicks me with her left leg. She kicks me in my nose. It is a horrible pain. I can’t hold the goat and the goat runs away. We are not successful. This is not the best method how to catch a goat. We have to find a better method. I tell my dog, “Let’s go home. I need to relax.” I work on my fence from January to March. It takes me a long time because I want to make the fence very strong. During this time, I find big birds on the island. Their homes aren’t in the trees. They live in holes which are between rocks. It is easy to catch them. Their meat is great. I can also cook and eat their eggs. When I work on my fence, I find a small bag. I remember corn in the bag. But now I see only some leaves in the bag. I take the bag outside my camp. I empty the bag because I need the bag for gunpowder. This happens before the rains. A month later, I find some green leaves in that place. It is young corn. I am so happy. The corn grows near my home. It is fantastic. I can bake bread in the future. Something happens in March. I am inside my cave when pieces of earth fall from the top of the cave. I am scared. My work on the cave can be lost. I run outside the cave. I see that the ground starts to shake. It is an earthquake. I am shocked and scared. Some big stones fall from the hill. But I am lucky. They don’t hit my tent. The earthquake is finished soon. But I don’t want to go inside the cave. I am scared. I sit on the ground before my tent. I think, “Maybe, it is dangerous to sleep in the cave. It is dangerous if another earthquake comes.” But I don’t want to sleep in the tent. So I decide to make a house. I start to build the house in April. It takes three months to build the house. But I am happy with my new home. I am ill in the last week of July. I have a temperature. I can’t get out of the bed. I am very weak. I can do nothing in this state. I have crazy dreams. The dreams are not very logical. But for me they are real when I have them. CHAPTER 13 – DREAM One of my dreams is really crazy. I am in a pub. The pub is on my island. I want to drink some rum. But the waitress is very lazy. She sits at the bar. She does nothing. I don’t like lazy people. I am angry but I wait. Then my wife comes to the pub. She gives me paper with some text. It is a message from her father. He writes that I have to go home. He writes that I have to work on the plantations. But I don’t want to go home. I go to the kitchen in the pub. My mother is in the kitchen. She prepares some steaks. She also cooks soup. I taste the soup. The soup tastes fantastic. Then two Englishmen come to the pub. They want to sell gunpowder. One man looks like a gentleman. But the second man is horrible. I tell the horrible man, “I am sorry. I don’t need your gunpowder. I have a lot of gunpowder in my camp.” The horrible man says, “You have to buy our gunpowder. We travel from London. We want to do the business.” I say, “Thank you. I don’t want your gunpowder.” The horrible man is really angry. Our conversation is not good. He says some horrible things about me. I say some horrible things about him. The conversation gets to a point when he wants to kill me. He takes his gun. I start to run away. He shoots at me. Then I wake up. One week later, I feel better. But I still need to relax. I need to sleep a lot. In August, I am OK again. But I still feel a little weak. I need to do some physical activity. The next ten days, I walk around the island. I feel better after these trips. When I feel strong again, I decide to explore the whole island. I find a new interesting part of the island. It is a valley. It is a valley with a lake. The valley is in the central part of the island. I find melons here. The melons look like big balls. They are very sweet. I also find apples, oranges and lemons in this valley. I want to take some fruit home. But I need a big bag. I don’t have a big bag with me. I collect some fruit. I put the fruit in one place. I return to my cave. I bring a big bag for the fruit. I like the fruit valley very much. The nature is beautiful here. I think, “Maybe, I can move here. But the beach is far from this place. I have to be close to the beach. I need to see a ship which can save me.” CHAPTER 14 – HOUSE I don’t move to the fruit valley. But I decide to build a house here. I visit the valley very often. Step by step, I build a house here. The house is small. I make a double fence around the house. The house is protected like a castle. Again, I use a ladder when I want to go inside. And inside, I have stairs in one corner of the fence. I use the stairs when I go outside. And I use the ladder when I go inside. This activity takes the whole August and the beginning of September. But I enjoy it a lot. The fruit valley gives me so much energy. I feel so healthy and strong here. Sometimes, when I am in the valley at night, I watch the moon and the stars. I think about my wife. I think about my family in England. I know that they see the same moon. They see the same stars. But we can’t be together. I think about my family very often. I wish the best for them. I also think about all the people who see the moon. I think about the places where they live. I feel connected with them. Sometimes, I feel connected with the whole universe. I also think about God. I have questions for God. I ask him, “Why am I on this island? Why am I still alive when my friends are all dead?” I don’t have answers to these questions. But I believe God. I believe that he knows what he is doing. It is the time when the rainy season starts. The rainy season continues until the middle of October. This is my first year on the island. When the rains end, I return to my valley house. I see that the fence is all green. New leaves are growing everywhere. This isn’t only beautiful. It is also useful because it is really hard to see the house. The leaves create shadow. It is very nice to stay here. I want to make a fence from the same wood around my first house too. When the rainy season is finished, I put my corn in the ground. I have a bad feeling that something bad can happen. I only use a half of the corn. This is a good idea because no corn grows up. I put the second half of the corn in the ground before the next rainy season. This time, the corn grows up. Now, I have a small farm on the island. I see that the seasons on the island are different from England. The seasons are not spring, summer, autumn and winter. We have two rainy and two dry seasons. With this information, I can now plan when to put corn in the ground. CHAPTER 15 – BASKET I make longer and longer trips around the island. I need a basket for these trips. With a basket I can carry more food during my trips. I can also carry more fruit from the fruit valley. I cut branches from the tree which I use for my fences. I use the branches for the basket. When I finish the basket, I decide to make a long trip around the island. I go through the fruit valley. After the valley, I find some fields. A lot of grass is on the fields. The fields are very flat. There are a lot of flowers on the fields. The flowers smell so good. Many insects fly around these flowers. I see some big butterflies. Their wings are ten centimetres wide. I also see small trees around these fields. I find nuts on these trees. These nuts are different from nuts in England. They have a different shape. They are also more sweet than nuts in England. I discover some new animals on this side of the island. Wild cats live here. I also see many parrots and other interesting birds. I catch one parrot. I take the parrot with me. His body has many colours. I see red, green, orange, blue, pink and yellow. This part of the island is very nice. More food is here. But I don’t want to move here. My dog catches a young goat on the way back. I save the goat. I take the goat with me. I want to keep goats. Now I have another chance. I leave the goat in my valley house. I want to prepare some space for the goat in my first home. I am so tired from the trip. I relax the whole day. I make a cage for the parrot. I bring home the goat. The goat starts to be calm. I make a map of the whole island. I put these new places on the map. The time goes very fast. Soon, it is September again. This is my second year on the island. I am less sad now. I accept my situation. I have many good things in my life. My days are similar. I hunt in the morning. I cook at noon. I relax in the afternoon when the sun is very strong. And I work in the evening. This is my typical day. I also teach my parrot how to say his name. His name is Poll. I have a problem with my corn in November and December. The wild goats want to eat the little plants. I don’t want to lose my corn. So I quickly make a fence around the field with the corn. I make a gate in the fence. I put my dog inside the fence. He protects my corn at night. Soon, the plants are tall, but another danger comes. Birds start to eat the seeds. I shoot at the birds. They fly away. I must watch my field every day. CHAPTER 16 – BREAD I have my first corn at the end of December. It isn’t a lot of corn. I don’t want to eat the corn. I decide to keep all the seeds. My goal is to put the seeds in the ground and have more corn later. I need some pots for the seeds. I look for clay on the island. I find some clay and I try to make a pot. I have no success at the beginning. But I try again and again. It is long work. But after two months of experiments, I make two pots. I put the pots in baskets. I put dry grass between the baskets and the pots. The dry grass and the baskets protect the pots very well. I continue to make small pots. Their quality is better and better. I also make long but not very high pots. I put sea water in them. When the water is gone, I have salt. One day, I find a broken piece of a pot in the fire. The fire makes the piece very hard. It is like a stone. The piece is very red too. I have an idea. I take one pot and I make a fire around the pot. The pot is very hard after two hours. I am happy with the result. I also need a tool with which I can make flour. I take a big piece of hard wood. I make a hole in the wood. I put the seeds in the hole. Then I take another piece of hard wood. I break the seeds in the hole with this second wood. The flour stays on the bottom of the hole. Now, I want to bake bread. I have an idea. I mix the flour with water. Then, I take two stones. I put the stones near the fire. When the stones are very hot, I put the bread between them. Now, I have my first bread on the island. The bread is not perfect. But I like the bread a lot. It is my first bread after a long time. It is during my third year on the island. I think about travelling around the island by sea. I think that it is possible to make a canoe. I want to make a canoe from a big tree. I find one big tree. I cut the tree. I start to make a hole in it. But after some days, I start to think about something. I start to think how to get the canoe from the forest to the beach. I think about it because I am quite far from the beach. I see that it is a problem. I see a small hill between the forest and the beach. It is not possible to move the canoe over the hill. The canoe is very heavy for it. I am really angry. I have to leave the canoe in the forest. Many days of work are lost. I don’t believe that I can make such a mistake. I have to plan my work better next time. CHAPTER 17 – CANOE After three years on the island, my clothes are already very old. I start to use the skins of the animals. I make a cap and other clothes from the skins. I also need an umbrella. I try to make an umbrella from the skins too. It is difficult at the beginning. It takes some time. But I am successful in the end. After three years, I am quite happy. I have everything what I need for my life. My life on the island continues for the next 5 years. During this time, I decide to make another canoe. The canoe is smaller. It isn’t difficult to move it to the beach. The canoe is finished in June. I want to travel around the island in the canoe. I put food, water and guns in the canoe. I am ready for the trip. The beginning of my trip isn’t easy for me. I am in danger when my journey starts. I have to go around some rocks in the sea. When I want to go back to the land, I feel a strong current under the canoe. The current is taking me away from the island. The situation is horrible. I am scared. I can’t survive in the open sea. I don’t have enough food and water for a long journey. I fight very hard against the current for two hours. Then, I am able to get close to my island. I can continue my trip around the island. Now, I know that I am stronger than the currents around the island. I feel good. I feel strong. Soon, I find a small river. I go up the river. But I get nowhere because soon the river is very narrow. Stones block the way. I can’t continue. I leave the canoe where it is. I want to explore this part of the island. I am not far from the part of the island which I know. Soon, I find the way to my house in the valley. I am very tired from the trip. Soon, I sleep. Then, I hear a voice. I wake up. The voice is saying my name, “Robinson, where are you? Robinson, where are you?” First, I am scared. But then I see my parrot Poll. He sits on top of the fence. He knows these words from me. And he is saying these words with the same intonation as me. I am surprised when I see him here. I think, “Why isn’t he at home?” But I am happy when I see him. I don’t go back to the canoe. I return home with the parrot. I don’t make such a trip for a year. I stay in my house most of the time. I make more tools and pots. I can also make very nice baskets now. CHAPTER 18 – FOOT It is eleven years after my first day on the island. One day, I see that I don’t have much gunpowder. It starts to worry me. I need gunpowder if I want to hunt animals. My first goat is very old. I want meat but I don’t have the heart to kill her. One day, she dies a natural death. With less and less gunpowder, I have to find another way how to get meat. I decide to make a trap. I am not successful at the beginning. But then I catch three young goats. They are one male and two females. I take them home with me. I keep the goats inside a small area. I make a fence around the area. But the area is too small for three goats. So I make a fence for them around a bigger area. It takes me three months to build this fence. But the area is very nice. There is a lot of grass and water for them. After some time, the young goats are very calm. Soon they eat from my hand. In two years, I have twelve goats inside my fence. And in three years, I have more than twenty goats. I have a lot of milk and meat thanks to this. I experiment a little, and after some time I am able to make cheese and butter. My table is full now and I have a lot of animals around me. I have my old dog, goats and my parrot. The only thing which I still miss is somebody for a conversation. One day, I go to the part of the sea where the strong current is. On the way there, I think about how strange I look. I have a big hat, a short jacket and short trousers. They are all made from animal skin. I don’t have socks or shoes but I put some goat skins around my feet. I have two belts. One belt is for the gun and knife, and one belt for the gunpowder. I also carry a basket on my back and an umbrella above my head. My beard is very long. I see that after eleven years on the island I don’t look like an Englishman. I am a different person. One day, I am walking on the beach. I am going to check my canoe. Then I see something surprising. I see a mark of a human foot on the sand. I look around but I see nobody. I am scared. I run back to my house. I am so scared that it is difficult to sleep at night. Then, I think, “Maybe it is all only my imagination. Or maybe it is the mark of my own foot and it is stupid to be scared.” After this thought, I feel better. I leave my house. And I go look at the mark again. CHAPTER 19 – CANNIBALS When I come to the mark of the foot, I see that the mark is much bigger than my foot. It’s impossible that it’s my foot. I’m scared again. I start to panic. I want to destroy my corn fields. I want to destroy my valley house. I need to hide my activity on the island. I’m so afraid that I can’t sleep the whole night. Finally I sleep a little in the morning. My head is clear when I wake up. Now, it isn’t so strange that people live on the islands around. I think, “Maybe this is their first visit here. Maybe this island is not interesting for them. Maybe it’s also their last visit here.” I feel better after these thoughts. But I want to do something for my protection if the people come again. During the following month, I make another fence around my house. I make holes in the fence. Through these holes, I can easily shoot from guns if I’m attacked. Now, I have a house which is very well protected. Nobody can come easily near me. I also worry about my goats. I divide the goats in two groups. I built a smaller fence in another part of the island. I put one group of the goats there. It takes me a lot of time, but my animals are safe. After sixteen years on the island, something very sad happens. My dog dies. I cry for three days. It’s my worst day on the island. Fortunately, I have my goats. I go to them and I tell them how sad I am. They don’t understand my words but I feel that they understand me. They feel my emotions. They are unusually calm and quiet. It’s now two years after the foot in the sand on the beach. One day, when I’m walking on the beach, I think that I see a canoe far in the sea. I’m not sure, so I continue to walk. Then I see a thing which shocks me. The beach is full of parts of human bodies. Heads, hands, feet, fingers and teeth are everywhere. There is a black place after a fire. I’m angry but also scared. I can’t look at this horrible scene for a long time. I have a horrible feeling in my stomach. I go back home and I think about what to do. Now, I can’t go out to sea with my canoe. I have no chance against a group of cannibals in the open sea. I also can’t use guns because the sound of a gun is very loud. But I always have guns with me for protection. I think that maybe in the future, I can kill some cannibals. And I can save their prisoners. I look for a place near the beach where I can hide and prepare for the attack. Then I change my opinion. I think that it’s not good to fight the cannibals. I don’t know these people. They don’t attack me. Maybe, it isn’t good to attack them. Finally, I stop the preparations for the attack. I decide to attack them only if they attack me first. CHAPTER 20 – CAVE I’m hiding my activity on the island. I’m very careful. I try not to be loud. I’m worried when I make a fire. But I need fire because I need to cook. So when I make a fire, I try to make only little smoke. Smoke can go very high. People can see smoke from a big distance. One day, I discover a small cave in the forest. The cave is near the beach. I go inside. When my eyes are OK with the dark, I see two eyes. The eyes are looking at me. I jump outside. I’m scared to death. I wait but nothing happens. I go slowly to the beginning of the cave and I listen. I hear something. It hear some animal. I think that the animal is injured. I take my gun and I go in the cave slowly. When my eyes can see again, I see an old goat. The goat is dying in the cave. I return to the cave the next day. I see that the goat is dead. I look around the place. I see that the place is very safe. It’s a good place near the beach where I can hide. So I bring some guns and some gunpowder there. It’s twenty-three years after my first moment on this island. I live comfortably now. I have many animals around me. Poll is repeating my name and some other words very nicely. I have two other parrots. I teach them how to say my name. I have more than thirty goats. One day, I’m walking to my fields in the morning when I see fire on the beach. I quickly return to my house. I prepare all my guns. I take my telescope. I go close to the beach. I hide behind a tree. I watch what is happening on the beach. I see nine naked people. They have two canoes. And they are leaving. When they leave, I go to the beach. The beach is full of blood and bones again. I’m angry again. I decide to kill them if I see them again. But they don’t return for a long time. One day in the evening after a big storm, something strange happens. I hear the sound of a gun at sea. I go to the beach. I see a light. The light is coming from the sea. But it’s very far. Then, I hear the gun again. I know that some ship is near my island. The ship is in danger. The ship is asking for help. But it’s very dark. I don’t see the whole ship. I take a lot of dry wood. I make a big fire on the beach. The men on the ship probably see the fire because they shoot again. I think, “I can speak to somebody tonight. This is great.” I keep the fire until midnight. But nobody comes to my beach. It’s very strange. I don’t understand it. I think, “Where are the men from the ship?” CHAPTER 21 – VISITORS The next day in the morning, I see the ship. The ship stops very far from the beach. The ship looks empty. I don’t understand it. I expect the people from the ship. I really want to speak with somebody. I miss communication with real people very much. I take my canoe. I go to the ship. I want to see if somebody is alive. The ship looks Spanish. The ship is completely destroyed. When I’m close to the ship, I see a dog. He is very happy when he sees me. I give him bread and I give him water. He is hungry and very thirsty. I find nobody on the ship. “Where are the men from the ship?” I think. It’s very strange. I don’t have an answer to this question. It’s a mystery. There are many boxes with different things on the ship. Some boxes are small, some boxes are big. I find bottles with alcohol in some big boxes. But these boxes are too heavy. I can’t take them on the canoe. I find guns and gunpowder. I take them to the canoe. I also find some other useful things. I return to the island in the evening with some small boxes on my canoe. I have some new shirts and also gold, silver and a lot of gunpowder. The gunpowder is important for me. On the island, gunpowder is more useful than money or gold. There is something else what I need very much. I need shoes. I find two pairs of shoes on board the ship. I take them with me. I put all my new things in the cave. I make five trips to the ship. I take everything useful for me. Then I hide the canoe. Everything goes back to normal. Time goes quickly. I often think about the men from the ship and the cannibals on the beach. One night in March I have an interesting dream. In the dream, I see 2 canoes with cannibals who come to the beach. One of their prisoners runs away. He comes to my house. I save him. Then he becomes my friend. He helps me go through the dangerous waters around the island. I wake up, but the dream stays in my mind. I believe that if somebody helps me, it’s possible to get away from the island. Maybe I can save one of the prisoners of the cannibals. I decide to watch the beach more. I go every day around the beach for the next two years. I hope to see the canoes. My wish becomes reality one afternoon. I see 5 canoes with more than thirty men on the beach. I can’t attack so many men. I have to wait. I watch them with my telescope. The visitors make a fire. They dance around the fire. I also see two other men. They are tied. They are prisoners. After some time, the cannibals take one tied men to the fire. They kill the man. The cannibals paint their bodies with his blood. It’s like a theatre. But this isn’t a theatre. It’s real. It’s horrible. But I can do nothing. There are too many cannibals. The second man is waiting on the side. When the cannibals don’t look, the second man jumps up. And he starts to run away. He is running in my direction. I run to the beach and I hide behind a tree. I see that only two cannibals run after him. This is the right moment to save the prisoner. The man runs fast but the cannibals are faster. They are closer and closer to him. I prepare two guns and I’m waiting behind the tree. CHAPTER 22 – FRIDAY The prisoner is running directly to my tree. But he doesn’t see me. I don’t move. Then he runs around me. I’m still behind the tree. When the first cannibal runs close to me, I jump from behind the tree. He is shocked. I shoot him. The second cannibal sees this. He tries to shoot an arrow at me. I have to shoot him too. The prisoner stops when he hears the gun. He turns. He is scared. I smile at him. I show him that it’s OK to come closer. He comes to me. He goes down to his knees. He puts his head on the ground. Then he takes my foot. He puts my foot on his head. I show him that he can stand up. He stands up. He looks at the dead cannibals. He goes to their bodies. He looks at the holes in their bodies. He probably can’t understand why the canniblas are dead. It’s unbelievable for him. He takes the arrows from the dead men. We take the bodies of the cannibals. We hide the bodies in the forest near. Then we go to the deeper forest. I take the man to my cave. The cave is my secret. Nobody can find us there. I give him bread, meat and some water. He is very tired. He sleeps immediately. I have an opportunity to look at him. I see that he is young, slim but very strong. I think that he is about 25 years old. He has long black hair, dark skin and a pleasant face. I let him sleep and I go outside. I sit near the cave. And I watch the space around the cave. Some canniblas can come and look for us. But they don’t come. Three hours later, the man comes out of the cave. He shows me how happy he is that he is alive and safe. I speak to him. I give him a name. His name is Friday because it’s Friday today. I tell him my name and I teach him “yes” and “no”. We stay in the cave at night. The next day, we go on top of the hill. I see through my telescope that the canoes are gone. We are alone on the island. We go carefully to the beach. First, we go to the place with the bodies of the dead cannibals. When we find them, Friday wants to eat them. I’m angry. I show to Friday that it’s not good to eat them. Here I understand that Friday is also a cannibal. We bury the cannibals. Then we walk to the beach. What we see is horrible. There are human bones on the sand. The sand is red with blood. We collect all the body parts. We prepare a big fire. I want to burn the body parts in the fire. We go to my house. I make a little tent for Friday. The tent is between the two fences which are around my house. I’m a little scared. I don’t know if Friday can hurt me. After some time, I see that I don’t have to be scared. Friday is a very good man. He is like a son. And I’m like a father for him. In many situations later, he shows me that he wants to give his life for me. I’m very happy that I have Friday on the island. I begin to teach him. I teach him what he needs to know about life like a European. First, I teach him some new words. I start with hi, hello, bye, thank you. It isn’t easy at the beginning. But I’m patient. I’m happy that I can speak to somebody. CHAPTER 23 – CONVERSATION I’m happy that Friday is on the island. I want to show him what I eat. I shoot a young goat. Friday is scared of the gun. He doesn’t understand how such a small thing can kill a goat. He doesn’t want to touch the gun. We make a soup. When I cook the soup, Friday goes to the forest and he brings some herb. He puts the herb in the soup. The herb is similar to pepper. The soup smells fantastic. The soup tastes fantastic too. The next day, we cook goat meat with sauce. Again, Friday brings some herbs and also plants. The herbs make the sauce taste great. We make a nice salad from the plants. I teach Friday how to prepare corn and bake bread. Soon, he can bake very good bread. Then, we make my field bigger because we want to have more corn. In all activities, Friday helps me a lot. He can also catch fish very well. Our cooperation is simply great. We are a good team. I want to teach Friday English. I want to teach him fast. I want to be a good teacher. I take my role very seriously. I think about the best method how to teach Friday English. When I speak fast, Friday doesn’t understand. So I try to speak slowly. I also speak only in the present. And I use simple words. I also say only short sentences. Now, Friday understands more. We speak about many topics. When Friday doesn’t understand something, I point at it. Or I explain the word to him. If it doesn’t help, I make a picture in the sand. Soon, Friday starts to understand many sentences in the present. He also starts to use some words. His pronunciation is very bad at the beginning. But it isn’t important for me. I understand him. And I’m very happy that somebody speaks to me. Friday is a good student. He is clever. He improves quickly. Soon, he can say some words like an Englishman. Of course, not all words, but the words which he says correctly make me very happy. I see that Friday very often repeats aloud what I say. I think that it also helps him to learn so fast. I think, “Learning a language is quite easy. You only need to copy what you hear and if you don’t understand something, you need a picture. Then, you need a lot of practice. This is the best system.” Friday’s progress is fast. He is able to talk more and more every day. In a couple of months, we can have a nice conversation. Friday likes my tools. They are very interesting for him. He especially likes the telescope. He borrows the telescope very often. He goes to one hill. And he watches everything around. One day, we speak about Friday’s people and why they have enemies. He says, “There is a war between two groups of local people. We are neighbours but we don’t like each other. We have many conflicts. There is never peace. We kill each other whenever we can.” Friday tells me that they eat human meat like their enemies. They also do rituals when they catch their enemies. Friday tells me about the sea and the currents in the sea. Thanks to Friday, I know more about the history, culture and traditions of his people. CHAPTER 24 – KNIFE I tell Friday my story. I describe England and Europe to him. I tell him about our cities, schools, ships and travelling around the world. I tell him that education is important in Europe and that we study from books. It’s all new to him. Friday’s people don’t need schools on the islands. They have all what they need for their life. When I feel that I can trust him enough, I show him how gunpowder works. I teach him how to use a gun. I give him a knife and a belt. He is happy with my presents. He says that it’s not the first time when he sees such a knife. He says that some white men live with them on their island. He counts seventeen Europeans. I think that these men can be the sailors from the Spanish ship. Friday tells me that they are OK. I’m happy when I hear that some Europeans live not very far from my island. I start to plan how to meet them. The next day, we go on a small trip around the island. First, we go to the cross where I want to mark another day. “What is it?” asks Friday when we come to the cross. I explain that we have seven days in a week. These days are Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. When Friday hears the word Friday, he laughs. I explain to him why his name is Friday. Now, he fully understands the meaning of his name. During the walk, Friday tells me, “If we build a canoe, we can go to my island.” I take Friday to the other side of the island. I show him my canoe there. But he says, “This canoe is too small for two people. We have to make a bigger canoe.” So, we start to make a bigger canoe. We have to cut a big tree and I show him how to cut the inside of the tree. It takes us a month to make the canoe. And it takes us two days to move the canoe to the beach. The canoe is ready and we are ready too. The day before we want to go, Friday goes to the beach. He comes back very quickly. He looks very scared. He says that there are three canoes on the beach. He is scared because he thinks that the cannibals are here because they want to find him. I tell him, “Don’t worry. We are strong. And maybe they don’t come for you today. Let’s wait and watch.” We take 15 guns. We go on top of a hill. We see 14 cannibals, 2 prisoners and 3 canoes on the beach. They stop close to the place where the forest is near the beach. It’s good because it’s easier to attack them and save the prisoners. We go to them quietly through the forest. I think about my right to kill them. I have no reason to shoot so many people who do nothing wrong to me. After some thinking I decide only to watch and attack them only if it’s necessary. CHAPTER 25 – FATHER When we are very close to the beach, we see that the cannibals are around the fire. They start to eat the first prisoner. The second prisoner is still alive. He isn’t one of Friday’s people. He is European. The cannibals want to eat him too. I decide to save him if it’s possible. We move closer to the cannibals but we are still hidden behind the trees. Twelve cannibals are still around the fire, but two cannibals go for the white man. When I see this, I prepare the guns. I ask Friday if he can do the same. Then we shoot quickly at the cannibals from six guns. We kill 3 and seriously injure 2 of the cannibals. The other cannibals jump up. But they don’t know where to run. They don’t know from which direction the danger comes. Some run to their canoes. Some stay on the beach. We continue to shoot. We shoot three other cannibals. After that, we take our guns and we run to the beach. We shout very loud. I run to the prisoner and Friday shoots another cannibal who is near. I free the European. He says something in Spanish to me. I give him a gun. He is weak but he can shoot. The cannibals are shocked by our quick attack. Our unusual guns scare them a lot. Only two cannibals try to fight us. We shoot them with our guns. Friday fights very well. He quickly kills one cannibal who is injured. The second injured cannibal runs to the forest. Friday runs after him and he kills him with his knife. Only three cannibals are able to run away. They jump in their canoe and they start to leave. Friday shoots at them, but he doesn’t hit them. It’s dangerous to let them go because they can tell their people about us. We want to jump in one canoe and we want to follow them. But to our surprise, we find another man on the bottom of the canoe. He is scared. He doesn’t see the fight. He only hears the fight. Ropes are around his neck. He is in great pain. It’s difficult for him to breathe. I quickly cut the ropes. When Friday sees him, he starts to cry. Then he laughs and he hugs the man. Then he jumps and begins to dance around him. Then he cries and laughs at the same time. When the strongest emotions are gone, Friday tells me that the prisoner is his father. I feel tears in my eyes when I see the son’s love for his father. This happy incident delays us and the cannibals are already gone. Friday massages his father’s hands and feet. The massage helps him. It brings more blood to the hands and feet. Soon his father feels much better. When they talk, Friday suddenly jumps up. He runs to the forest very fast. When he comes back, he has a bottle full of fresh water. He gives the water to his father who is extremely thirsty. After he drinks, I ask Friday to give the rest of the water to the Spanish. He needs water very much too. The Spanish thanks me a lot. He has problems to walk. He is very weak. I ask Friday to massage his feet too. It helps him. Then, I want to help the Spanish go to the canoe because it’s very difficult for him to walk. We want to take our new guests to our house. But Friday is young and strong. He has a lot of power. He takes the Spanish on his back and carries him to the canoe. He carefully puts him inside the canoe. CHAPTER 26 – DINNER When the Spanish is inside the canoe, Friday jumps out of the canoe. He pushes the canoe along the beach. Soon, we reach the place near our house. Friday helps our new guests out of the canoe. But they aren’t able to walk. We have to carry them to our home. We have another problem when we reach our house. Friday’s father and the Spanish can’t go over the fence. I think about the solution. First, I want to pull them over the fence. But the cannibals are already gone. There is no danger from them now. So, we can stay outside the fence. We make a tent for them outside the fence. We prepare soft beds for them too. When we finish this, I start to cook dinner. Friday brings some fish and we cook them quickly. We have dinner together in the tent. Friday translates for me because the Spanish can speak Friday’s language. After the dinner, Friday goes back to the beach. He brings back all the weapons. The next day, we bury the bodies of the killed cannibals. It’s a lot of work. I speak with Friday’s father the next morning. I want to know what he thinks about the cannibals. I ask, “Can they return? Can they attack us?” He says, “No, they can’t attack us. They are scared of the guns. They think that you and Friday are spirits sent from heaven.” I’m still worried that the cannibals can return. But they never return. When our guests are strong enough, I begin to think about the journey by sea again. I ask the Spanish why he is on these islands. He says that he is from the Spanish ship. He says that there are sixteen Europeans on Friday’s island. They are Spanish and Portuguese. They want to go home, but they can’t build a ship because they have no tools. I show the Spanish the tools which I have from the ship. He says that with my tools it’s possible to build a ship. I think that the Spanish and Friday’s father can return to their island. They can tell other Europeans about my tools. Together we can build a ship. Then, we can go to Brazil or Havana or maybe Europe. But the Spanish wants something else. He says, “It’s be better if we wait for some time. There isn’t enough food for sixteen other men on the island. We need more food to eat when we build the ship.” I agree with him. He and Friday’s father help us expand the fences and fields. We catch more goats. Now, we have 50 goats. We collect a lot of fruit. Then we dry the fruit. We also prepare the materials for the ship. I choose some trees. I show the others how to cut the trees. Then we make long and thin pieces. Soon, we have a lot of food. We have a lot of corn. We need more baskets and pots for the corn. The Spanish knows how to make baskets. He has a great talent. His baskets are excellent. He uses a special technique when he makes baskets. The technique is fast and effective. He makes the baskets three times faster than me. I want to learn his technique. He teaches me. I’m not as fast as the Spanish. But I’m faster than before. CHAPTER 27 – ENGLISHMEN We put all the food in my cave. The food is safe there. The Spanish and Friday’s father can go back. They can bring the other men here. We give them food and four guns in case the cannibals want to attack them again. Then they take the canoe and they go away. Two days pass when something unusual happens. Friday wakes me up at 6 in the morning. “Are they here?” I ask Friday. He says, “No. But somebody else is here. There is a boat at sea.” I go to the top of the nearest hill. I see the boat. It’s clear that these people are not the friends from Friday’s island. The boat comes from a different direction. I also see a ship. I know this shape. The ship is English. I’m confused. It’s true that I’m happy when I see Englishmen after twenty-seven years on the island. But I’m also worried. The island isn’t near ways of English ships. I don’t remember any storm yesterday. So, why are they here? Maybe, the men are pirates. Maybe, they want to hide something on the island. I decide to be very careful. Friday and I stay in the forest and we watch them. The boat comes to the beach and I count eleven men. Soon, I see that they are all Englishmen. Three men have hands tied together. The eight other men take them to the beach. Two prisoners are calm, but the third prisoner tries to say something. He looks very scared. He asks the men in the boat for something. When Friday sees this, he turns to me and he tells me that Englishmen also eat people. I tell him that they definitely don’t plan to eat them. I think that they want to shoot them. After some time, we see that this isn’t their plan. The men from the boat start to explore the island. The three tied prisoners sit on the beach with two men as guards. The prisoners look very sad. Their situation is bad. Low tide comes soon. The level of the sea is low. Their boat is on the sand. They can’t move the boat. I hear them say, “We have to wait and leave with the next high tide.” This give us some hours. Friday and I stay in the forest until dark. Then I see that the men who stand the guard start to sleep. The three prisoners sit under a tree quite close to us. It looks like they are also quite far from the other sailors. We can come closer to them. When we are very close to them, I speak quietly to them. We are still behind the trees and they can’t see us. When they hear my voice, they can’t believe that somebody speaks English to them from the dark forest. “What is that?” asks one of the men. “I hear something. I hear a tree speak,” answers the other. “But it’s impossible. A tree can’t speak English.” “Yes, you hear something but it’s not a tree,” I say quietly. “My name is Robinson Crusoe. I’m an Englishman. I live on this island. I can help you if you tell me who you are.” After the first shocking moment, one man answers my question. He is the captain of the ship. But after a rebellion on the ship, the captain, his assistant and a passenger are prisoners. The other sailors want to leave them on the island. The captain says, “The truth is that there are only two dangerous sailors who control the others in the group. Eighty percent of them are still loyal to me. If the leaders are caught, the rest can return under my control.” CHAPTER 28 – CONTROL I say, “I can help you but I have one condition. I want full control over the ship if we manage to get the ship back.” The captain and the other two prisoners agree. They give me full control over the ship and over their lives. We free the prisoners. Then we go back to the forest. I give them guns and we start to plan the attack. In the middle of our conversation, we see that the sailors who stand guard wake up. They stand up. They shout to three other men who are near to them. At that moment, we shoot the guards. Then the captain speaks to the three other men. He doesn’t want to shoot them but they must be loyal to him and help him get the ship back. They agree. We tie them and leave them on the beach. The other three men who hear the shots come back. They see that the situation is changed. We are five. We have a lot of guns. The situation is bad for them. They also say that they want to be loyal to the captain. We tie these men too. We hide our six prisoners in the forest. Then I and the captain have finally time to talk to each other. I tell him my story and he is shocked. He also thanks me a lot for my help. He and his two friends are hungry, so we go to my house. I show them the results of my work during all the years on the island. They are surprised when they see what I have. But we don’t have much time to explore my home. We have to plan how to get the ship back. There are sixteen men on board and we are only five. First, we decide to take everything out of the boat. We thinks that the sailors can send another boat to the island if the men from the first boat don’t come back with the next high tide. In the morning, we hear a gun. It’s a signal from the ship. After some time, we hear the gun again and again. There is no answer. Then we see that the sailors take another boat and go to the beach. We see eight men. They all have guns. The captain tells me that six men are still loyal to him. But there is also the man who is the leader of the rebellion. The captain thinks that it’s difficult to beat them. But I tell him that we have a good chance to win. But we have to do something quickly. The captain trusts two of our prisoners. They promise to fight on our side. We give them weapons. We are seven men ready to fight. We wait for the arrival of the boat. When the boat reaches the beach, the men jump out of the boat. They pull the boat on the beach. Then, they run to the other boat. They are surprised when they see the boat empty. They call their friends. They shout. Then, they shoot in the air but it’s all useless. Nobody shouts back. The sailors are confused. They don’t understand the situation. They start to put the boat in the water again. It looks like they want to go back to the ship to tell the others that there is a problem. When the captain sees this, he is afraid that they can go back to the ship and leave the island forever. But 10 seconds later, the sailors change their plan. Now, they leave three men in the boat. The other five men go to the forest to look for their friends. CHAPTER 29 – PLAN We continue to watch all the actions of both groups. The five men in the forest sit down under a tree. They discuss what to do. They argue a little. After a long conversation under the tree, they get up. Then they walk to the beach. Maybe they don’t want to look for friends. We have to do something quickly. We can’t let them go back to the boat. I have a plan. I tell the assistant to go more to the centre of the island. Friday goes with him. Then, they shout at the sailors. When the sailors hear this, they shout back. Then they go in the direction of the voice. Friday and the assistant continue to shout back. They take the sailors to the opposite side of the island. This strategy works very well. The five men are soon very far from the beach. This is very good for us. We go to the three men in the boat. We explain the situation to them. They decide not to fight us. They become our prisoners too. After some time, Friday and the assistant return. The sailors are very far from the beach. The sailors can’t return soon. We hide and we wait for them. When the sailors return, they are very tired. First, they go to the boat. They are surprised when they don’t find the three men. They call their friends. But nobody answers. The leader and two other men walk to the forest where we are hiding. The captain and Friday attack them when they are close to us. The leader is killed immediately. The second man is injured. The third man runs back to the boat. Then we all go out of the forest. We run to the boat. The captain speaks to sailors. He tells them to give up. When the sailors understand the situation, they drop their weapons quickly. We decide to tie the prisoners. But we don’t tie all of them. The captain trusts three of the men. We don’t tie these three men. Now, we are ten men. We start to plan how to get the ship. After some discussion we know what to do. Friday and I stay on the island. We have to watch the prisoners. The captain, his assistant and the passenger take the clothes of some of the prisoners. They want to look like them. Then the captain and his sailors take the boat. They go to the ship. When they are near the ship, they speak to the men on the ship. They tell them that it isn’t possible to find the other men. When all of the men from the boat are on the ship, the captain shows his face and the attack begins. Some sailors are injured in the battle. Only one person is killed. It’s the second leader of the rebellion. When the captain has his ship again, we hear seven shots. It’s the signal that the ship is in captain’s hands again. I’m happy when I hear the shots. Soon the captain goes back to the island. He tells me that the ship is now under my control. I’m so happy. I start to cry. I cry so much that I can’t speak. After 10 minutes, I’m able to speak again. I speak to the captain. I tell him how happy I am. The captain tells his men to bring a lot of food from the ship. We eat good food. We celebrate our victory and my departure from the island. We drink expensive wine. We eat pork, beef and vegetable. We eat biscuits for dessert. I’m very happy when I eat this food again. The captain gives me new clothes. I have new clothes after a long time. The clothes are very light. They are a little uncomfortable first. But it’s soon OK. When the party is finished, we discuss what to do with the five prisoners who the captain doesn’t trust. The men are really horrible. The captain doesn’t want to take them on board the ship as prisoners. It’s too dangerous. I tell the captain to discuss it with the prisoners. Maybe they want to stay on the island. It’s better for them because their rebellion means death in England. We go to them and we explain the situation. They have to choose between a death in England and a life on the island. I think that it’s fair to let them decide. They decide to stay on the island. We put them in the cave. The cave is now the prison. I tell them to wait for more orders. CHAPTER 30 – SON I need some time to prepare for the journey. I need to plan what to take with me. But then I see that I don’t need to take many things. I decide to take my dog, my parrot, my book and some other small things. I also take the money, gold and silver which are from the ships. They are finally useful to me. I meet with the prisoners again. I show them my corn and my animals. And I tell them about the island. Then I go on board the ship. We leave the island in December, 1686. It’s twenty-seven years after my first step on the island. First, we go to the island where Friday’s people live. The Spanish and Portuguese sailors are very happy when they see us. They are happy that we have a ship. Now we don’t have to build a new ship. We can go to Europe. My dog is very happy too. When he sees one of the Spanish sailors, he runs to him very quickly. He jumsp on him. He is extremely happy. The Spanish sailor is his owner. He is very happy too. He starts to cry when he sees his dog. It’s a very emotional meeting. The sailors start to prepare for our journey across the ocean. Friday has to make a decision. He can stay with his people. Or he can go to Europe with me. He needs some time to think about it. We stay on the island one night. In the morning, I ask Friday if he knows what to do. He tells me that he wants to go with me to Europe. He prepares everything for the journey. We are ready to go. We start our journey. Two months later, after a safe journey across the ocean, we arrive to London. For me it’s after thirty-five years. It looks like the whole world is different after those years. Some parts of London are new. There are some new houses, streets, roads, shops, parks and big bridge across the river. But it isn’t all. People are also different. They have different clothes. Women have different hair style. Men have different hats and new types of guns. People use new tools which I don’t know. They have new names for these tools. It’s all very interesting. The style of music in the pubs is also different. I hear new songs. I like this new style. I want to sing these new songs. From London I return to my town, York. My parents are both dead. I find some relatives. My sister, my uncle and my aunt are still alive. They are happy when they see me. But they think that I’m long dead. So I have no rights to family’s money or land. But I can stay and live in their house. England is a big shock to Friday. Everything is so new for him. It’s all very interesting for him. He likes this new experience. What he doesn’t like is the cold weather in winter. It’s February. Snow and ice aren’t good for him. It isn’t logical for him why we live in such conditions. I tell him that in summer the weather is much better. I send a letter to Brazil. I still remember the address very well. I want to contact people in Brazil. I want to know if my wife is still alive. I want to know if my plantation still exists. But I don’t know what to expect after so many years. In May, I get a letter and some packets from my wife. She writes nice words to me. She writes about times when she waits for me. But 10 years after my departure, she doesn’t believe that I’m alive. She marries again and she has a new family. But her new husband is ill and he dies. It’s already two years. Now, she lives without a husband. I also get a letter from my wife’s father. He is very old but still alive. In his letter, he writes expenses and profit from my plantation during all these years. They both send me many nice presents. They send me some nice skins and a little box full of gold. They also send me some boxes of sugar to sell. My wife has also a big surprise for me. She writes that I have a son. It’s great news. He is born eight months after my departure. He is now a big man and he wants to meet me. So many things happen in a short time. I can’t believe that it’s all true. I want to cry. Then I want to laugh. All the emotions are too much for me. I’m not able to be calm. I stand up. I sit down. I stand up again. I walk around the room. I laugh. Then I cry again. When I’m a little calm, I think about what to do. CHAPTER 31– BRAZIL I think about another journey to Brazil. I want to see my son, my wife and my plantation. I think that I can move to Brazil. But I don’t know if my wife wants to live with me. After some longer thinking, I decide to go to Brazil but only for a visit. I want to see if it’s OK to live there again. I write to my wife. I ask her if it’s OK to visit them for some days. With the letter, I send nice presents to her and her father’s family. Then I get a letter from my wife. She writes that I’m welcome to visit them. Her invitation makes me happy. I start to plan another journey by sea. I buy nice presents for them. Two weeks later I’m ready to go. When we arrive to Brazil, I meet with my wife and my son. My wife is different now. But she is still very beautiful. My son is a big man. He is very strong. He is also very intelligent. He has his own family too. He has also big responsibility. He manages plantations of all the family. He is responsible for a big land. My son speaks only Portuguese and a little Spanish. My Portuguese isn’t very good after so many years. I don’t remember many words. I remember only some basic words. But with practice I start to remember words fast. In two weeks, I can have a basic conversation on many topics. And one month later, I’m able to speak very well. I’m very happy that I can speak with my wife and my son. We have so many things for a conversation. Brazil is also very different. People have different clothes. They build new types of houses. Plantations are much bigger. Many people work on them. I’m with my family for three months. I know that I’m not very far from my island. I think about visiting the island again. I want to see the island for some days. Friday also wants to see the island again. My son also wants to go. I think that it isn’t a good idea. I know how dangerous the sea can be. But he wants to see the place which he knows only from my stories. We plan our journey. Two weeks later, we leave Brazil. We go on a ship which goes to Havana. We have an agreement with the captain. He promises to stop at my island on the way there. When I arrive at my island, we meet with Friday’s people. They now live on the island. I ask them, “Where are the prisoners?” They tell me that the prisoners are not on the island. They don’t know where they are. Maybe they are all dead. Friday’s people tell me that they don’t eat Europeans. They eat only their enemies from other islands. I’m happy when I hear that. I want to stay on the island and my son too. I ask the captain if he can take us back to Brazil on the way back. He agrees. I see many children who run around. It’s interesting to see many people on my island. I see that the people on the island are very happy. Friday is happy there too. He meets a woman. He likes her very much. Friday asks me if it’s OK that he stays on the island with his woman. He knows that he lives thanks to me. He doesn’t want to leave me without my permission. I agree. He doesn’t have to stay with me all his life. It’s time for Friday to start his own family. I’m happy that he has a good woman. I’m happy when I see that they love each other. I respect Friday’s decision to stay on the island. I walk around the island a lot. I want to visit all the places which I know from my life on the island. I have some favourite places, for example the fruit valley. I spend a lot of time there. I like this place very much. My son likes the island too. He often walks around the island with me. I tell him many other stories about my life here. We stay on the island for twenty days. Then the ship from Havana comes. It’s time to leave. We say goodbye to Friday and his people. When we leave the island, I have a strange feeling. I feel tears in my eyes. I like this place very much. My heart is connected with this island forever.
The book says, “Snakes eat the whole animal. And they sleep for six months.” I think about the life in the forest. I make my first picture. This is my picture number one. I show my fantastic picture to one person. And I ask this person, “Are you scared?” This person answers, “How can I be scared? It is a hat.” My picture is not a picture of a hat. It is a picture of a big snake. An elephant is inside the snake. Then I make my picture number two. The picture shows the inside of the big snake. Now people understand. This is my picture number two. People tell me what they think. They tell me that it is not good to make pictures. They tell me that it is better to study geography, history, maths and grammar. After these words, I don’t want to make pictures. I don’t want to make pictures because my picture number one and picture number two are not good for the people. People don’t understand simple things. And now, I am not a child. I am a big person. I have a job. I am a pilot. I fly planes. I fly in many countries. And it is true that geography is good for me. Geography can help me if I am lost in the night. In my life, I work with people every day. The people are often serious. Sometimes I meet a person who is a little normal. When I meet this person, I show him my picture number one. I always have this picture with me. I want to know if this person understands life. But the person always says, “It is a hat.” Then I never speak to this person about big snakes or forests or stars. And we speak about work, sport and family. And the person is happy. For him I am a normal man. I live alone. I don’t know people for an open conversation. But one day it all changes. I have an accident in the Sahara Desert. Something is broken in my plane. I have nobody in the plane with me. It is not easy to repair the plane alone. But I must do it. It is a question of life or death. I have water for only a week. CHAPTER 2 – SHEEP The first night, I sleep on the sand. I am a thousand miles from a land with people. I think that no people are around me. So I am shocked when somebody speaks to me in the morning. I hear these words, “Please, draw me a sheep.” “What?” “Draw me a sheep!” I jump up. I look around. And I see a little man. This is the picture of the little man. My picture is not very good. The original model is better. It is not my mistake. I know how to draw only two pictures. They are pictures of a snake from the outside and a snake from the inside. I look at this little man. I am really surprised. Don’t forget that I am a thousand miles from a land with people. Something is very interesting. This little man is not tired. He is not hungry. He is not thirsty. He is not scared. He doesn’t look lost in the middle of the desert, a thousand miles from a land with people. The little man says, very slowly, “Please draw me a sheep.” It is all very strange to me. I am a thousand miles from a land with people. I am in danger of death. But I take a pen and paper from my pocket. I want to draw a picture. Then I remember that I know only geography, history, maths and grammar. And I tell the little man that I don’t know how to draw. He says, “It is OK. Draw me a sheep.” But I don’t know how to draw a sheep. So I draw him a picture which I am able to draw. It is a big snake from the outside. And I am shocked when the little man says, “No, I don’t want an elephant inside a big snake. A big snake is a very dangerous animal. And an elephant is very big for me. Where I live, everything is very small. I need a sheep. Draw me a sheep.” So I make this picture. The little man looks at the picture. Then he says, “No. This sheep is ill. Make me another sheep.” I draw another picture. My friend smiles at me, “You must see it too. This is not a sheep. It is a ram. It has horns.” So I make another picture. But this picture also isn’t good. “This sheep is old. I want a sheep which can live a long time.” It is not easy for me. I don’t have time for this. I must start my work on the plane. So I draw this picture. And I say, “This is a box. The sheep is inside.” I am surprised when I see the light in his face, “This is what I want! Do you think that this sheep needs a lot of grass?” “Why?” “Because where I live, everything is very small.” “I think that there is enough grass for the sheep. This is a very small sheep.” The little man looks at the picture. And he says, “The sheep is not very small. It is a very nice sheep.” This is my first day with .. CHAPTER 3 – PLANET I want to know more about .. I want to know where he lives. . asks me many questions. I also ask him questions. But he doesn’t answer my questions. But when he speaks, I slowly start to understand many things. For example, when he looks at my plane, he asks, “What is this thing?” I answer, “It is a plane. It can fly. It is my plane.” And I am happy when I tell him that I can fly. Then he says, “What? Are you from the sky?” “Yes,” I say. “It is funny!” And . starts to laugh. I am angry. My situation is not good. How can somebody think that it is funny? Then he says, “So you also come from the sky like me. What is your planet?” At this moment I start to understand more about him. I ask, “Do you come from another planet?” But he doesn‘t answer. He looks at my plane again. Then he says, “On this thing, you can’t come from very far.” And he starts to think. Then he takes the picture with his sheep. And he looks at his sheep. But I want to know more. So I ask again, “Where is your planet? Where do you want to take your sheep?” He is quiet. Then he says, “The box is a good thing. At night, I can use the box as a house for the sheep.” “Yes. And I can also give you a rope. Then you can tie the sheep during the day.” But . is shocked when I say this, “Tie the sheep? It is a funny idea!” “But if you don’t tie the sheep, the sheep can run away. You can lose the sheep.” . starts to laugh again. “But where can the sheep go?” “It can go to many places. It can go left. It can go right.” . says, “The sheep can go away on my planet. It is OK. Where I live, everything is so small.” He is a little sad. Then he says, “Where I live, nobody can go very far.” Now I know a second important thing. The planet of . is very small. It is like a house. But it isn’t really a big surprise. I know that we don’t have only big planets like Earth, Mars or Jupiter. We have also hundreds of other planets. These planet are sometimes very small. If you want to see these planets, you need a very good telescope. When an astronomer discovers such a planet, he doesn’t give the planet a name. He gives the planet only a number. The name of the planet is, for example, Asteroid 3251. CHAPTER 4 – ASTEROID I think that the planet of . is Asteroid B-612. In 1909, one astronomer discovers this asteroid. The astronomer is from Turkey. He speaks about his asteroid at a big conference. But nobody believes him because he has Turkish clothes. It is crazy but people do these things. But there is something good for Asteroid B-612. A Turkish leader says that people in Turkey must have clothes like Europeans. The astronomer speaks about his asteroid again in 1920. He has very nice clothes. And now everybody believes him. I speak about Asteroid B-612 and I speak about its number because people like numbers. When you tell people that you have a new friend, they never ask you questions about important things. They never ask you, “Is his voice nice? What games does he play? Does he have butterflies at home?” They ask, “How old is he? How many brothers does he have? How big is he? How much money does his father have?” If they know these numbers, they think that they know this person. If you say to the people, “I know a small red house. It has beautiful flowers in the windows. A lot of birds fly around the house,” the people can’t imagine the house. You must say to the people, “I know a big house. It is very expensive. You can buy this house for one hundred thousand dollars.” Then the people say, “It is a nice house.” If you say to the people, “. exists because he laughs and he wants a sheep,” this information is not enough for the adults. They don’t believe you. They think that you live in a dream. But if you tell them, “The planet of . is Asteroid B-612,” they believe you. This is how the people think. If you understand life, you don’t need numbers. You need to hear a nice story. You like to hear, “. lives on a small planet. The planet is very small. . is alone. He wants to have a friend.” If you understand life, this is what you want to hear. CHAPTER 5 – ELEPHANTS It is six years after my meeting with .. When I think about him, I am sad. But I write about ., because I don’t want to forget him. It is sad when you forget a friend. Not everybody has a friend. This is the reason why I have paper and colours in my hands now. It is difficult to draw for me when I am old. But I want to do it. I want to make my pictures very good. But I am not sure if I can do it. One picture is OK, but another picture is not very good. I make some mistakes in the size too. Here . is very big. Here he is very small. Maybe the colour of his clothes is not correct. But I try to draw as well as possible. But sometimes when my picture is not perfect, it is not my mistake. It is .’s mistake. He never explains things to me. Maybe he thinks that I am like him. But unfortunately, I don’t see the sheep in the box. Every day, new information about .’s planet comes. I also know more and more about his journey to the Earth. The information comes very slowly. The information comes during moments when . thinks about his past. For example, on the third day, . speaks about a problem with the baobabs. Baobabs are big trees. The conversation about baobabs starts when . asks me a question about the sheep. “Is it true that sheep eat little trees?” “Yes. It is true.” “It is good.” I don’t understand why it is so important that sheep eat little trees. But . says, “So they also eat baobabs?” I tell . that baobabs aren’t little trees, “The baobabs are big trees. The baobabs are very big. They are like houses. And, for example, if you put nine big elephants on your planet, these elephants can’t eat one baobab. The baobabs are so big.” The idea of nine elephants is funny for .. And he laughs, “On my planet, elephants must stand on elephants.” But then he says something clever, “When the baobabs are young, they are very small.” “It is true,” I say. “But why is it important that your sheep eats the little baobabs?” He says, “It is simple. Think about it. It is not very difficult.” So I start to think about the problems with baobabs. Soon, I have the answer. CHAPTER 6 – TREES I think that on .’s planet, there are good plants and bad plants. It is normal for all planets. And of course, there are also good seeds of good plants and bad seeds of bad plants. But we can’t see seeds. They are in the ground. But one day, every seed wakes up. Then the seed starts to grow. The seed grows slowly to the sun. When the plant is very small, you don’t know if the plant is some vegetable or a rose. And you can let the plant grow. But when you see that it is a bad plant, it is important to destroy the plant fast. It is true that there are bad seeds on the planet of .. They are the seeds of baobabs. The ground of the planet is full of them. If you see a baobab too late, you can’t destroy it. Then the baobab grows over the whole planet. And if the planet is too small, two or three baobabs can destroy the planet. “It is a question of discipline,” . tells me. “When I wash my face in the morning and when I put on my clothes, then it is time to clean my planet. It is necessary to pull the baobabs when I see them. Sometimes it isn’t easy because they are similar to roses when they are very young. It is a very boring job, but very easy.” And one day he says to me, “You can draw a beautiful picture. The picture can show this situation to children. This information can help children when they travel around the universe. In life, it is sometimes OK to do your work later. But when you do your work with baobabs later, it is always a big problem. I know a planet with a lazy man. Now he has a big problem. He has three big baobabs on his planet. He is not happy.” And, when . speaks about the planet, I make a picture of this planet. People know only a little about the problem with baobabs. And it is possible that one day when you are lost on an asteroid, you can have this problem too. I believe that it is important to know that baobabs can be very dangerous for a small planet. I work so hard on this picture because I want to tell children about the problem which they don’t know. I also make the picture very big. It is big because the problem with baobabs can be very big. CHAPTER 7 – SUN Step by step, I start to understand the secrets of .’s life. For a long time his only fun is to watch beautiful sunsets. This information comes on the fourth day in the morning. . says, “I really like sunsets. Let’s look at a sunset now.” “But we must wait,” I say. “Wait? Wait for what?” “Wait for the moment when the sun is down.” . is very surprised. Then he laughs. And he says, “I am always thinking that I am at home.” Everybody knows this. When it is noon in the United States, the sun is going down in France. If you can fly to France in one minute, you can watch the sunset. But .’s planet is very small. You only need to pull your chair four or five metres. And you can watch the sunset when you want. . tells me about a day with forty-three sunsets. He says, “When you are very sad, sunsets are great.” “The day with forty-three sunsets must be a sad day. Is it true?” I ask. But . doesn’t answer. On the fifth day, new information about .’s life comes. He asks me, “If a sheep eats little trees, does it eat flowers, too?” “A sheep eats everything what is green,” I answer. “Does a sheep eat flowers with thorns too?” “Yes. The sheep eats flowers with thorns too.” “I don’t understand,” says ., “Why does the flower have thorns if a sheep can eat the flower?” I don’t know. At that moment I am very busy. I need to repair my plane. I am scared because my situation starts to be very serious. I have so little water. I think that my death is close. “Why does the flower have thorns?” . always wants an answer to his question. But at that moment I am angry because I can’t repair my plane. I answer without thinking, “Thorns are good for nothing. Flowers have thorns because they want to hurt others.” “Oh!” . is thinking for a moment. I see that he is a little angry. Then he says, “I don’t believe you! Flowers are weak. The thorns give them power. Flowers believe that their thorns are big weapons.” I say nothing. I am very busy with my plane. CHAPTER 8 – FLOWER I am still repairing my plane when . says, “Do you really believe that flowers have thorns because they want to hurt others?” “No, I don’t believe it! But I don’t want to think about it. I am busy with my plane. It is a serious thing!” He is shocked. “Serious thing?” He looks at me. My hands are touching the engine. The engine is dirty. My hands are dirty too. . doesn’t like the engine. But the engine is important for me. “You talk like the adults!” . is not happy. I know that it is my mistake. I don’t feel OK. But . continues, “You mix everything together!” . is angry. “I know a planet with a gentleman with a red face. He doesn’t have a flower. He doesn’t look at stars. He doesn’t love other people. He only counts numbers. And all day he repeats again and again, like you, ‘I am a serious man! I am a serious man!’ And he is very proud. But he is not a man, he is a mushroom!” “He is a what?” “A mushroom!” . is now very angry. His face is white. “Flowers have thorns. Sheep eat flowers. And you think that it is not good to try to understand why flowers have thorns. There is a war between the sheep and the flowers. And you think that it is not important?” . is still very angry. He continues. “You think that the war between the sheep and the flowers is not more important than the numbers of the gentleman with a red face? I know a flower which is the only flower in the world, which exists only on my planet. It is a flower which a little sheep can eat for breakfast. And you think that this is not important?” His face is now red. He continues. “If you love a flower which is in the sky, then you are happy when you look at the stars. You are happy because you know that your flower is he says up there. But if the sheep eats the flower, then the sky is very sad for you.” He can’t say another word. He starts to cry. The night comes. I put my tools on the ground. How important are my tools, my engine, my death now? On one planet, on my planet, the Earth, there is a little prince who needs me. I take him in my arms. I hold him. I say to him, “The flower which you love is not in danger. I can draw you something which can protect your flower. I can draw you a fence. You can put the fence around your flower. I can…” I don’t know what to say to him. I don’t feel comfortable. I don’t know how to talk to him, how to be his friend again. It is so strange when somebody cries. CHAPTER 9 – GLASS I soon have more information about the flower. On .’s planet the flowers are always very simple. They are small and they don’t talk. They grow in the grass in the morning, and they are gone in the evening. But it all changes one day. There is a different seed. It comes from some place which nobody knows. Soon a new flower starts to grow. First she is very small. . watches her very carefully. The flower isn’t like other flowers on his planet. The flower can be a new type of baobab. But she is not a baobab. She is really a flower. Soon she starts to prepare for opening. The preparation for this moment is long. The flower doesn’t want to show her colours fast. Then one morning, exactly at sunrise, the flower shows her colours. And after all her preparation for this moment, she says, “Ah! I am sorry. Give me some time. I need some time to be perfect.” But . can’t hide his feelings, “Oh! How beautiful you are!” “Yes, I am beautiful. Look at me,” the flower says. “And I am born at the same moment as the sun.” “I think that it is time for breakfast,” she says, “Can you bring me some water?” . is surprised. The situation is new for him. But he brings water to the flower. The flower starts to play with .. Her play isn’t always nice. One day, for example, when she speaks about her four thorns, she says to ., “I am ready for tigers. They can come.” “There are no tigers on my planet,” says ., “And tigers don’t eat grass.” “I am not a grass,” the flower says, “I am not scared of tigers, but I am scared of wind. Do you have something which can protect me from wind?” “It is not good when a flower is scared of wind,” says ., and he thinks, “This flower is very complicated.” “At night I want to be under glass. It is very cold here where you live. The cold is not comfortable. I come from a place where…” But she stops at this moment. Flowers grow from seeds. They don’t know about other worlds. The flower feels stupid now. She knows that . sees that she can lie to him. She quickly coughs two or three times. She wants to show . that she is cold and that he doesn’t care about her well. “The glass? I can look for the glass but you still talk to me,” says .. Then the flower starts to cough a little more. She wants to show him how bad he is. . has a lot of love in his heart. But he can’t believe the flower. For ., it is important how somebody speaks to him. And the flower doesn’t speak to him well. CHAPTER 10 – VOLCANOES “It isn’t good to listen to the flower,” . tells me one day. “Never listen to flowers. You have to only look at them and smell them. My flower makes my planet beautiful. She smells so good. But I don’t know how to like her. The story about the tigers makes me so angry. But it isn’t good to take it so seriously. It is good to love the flower because she is so beautiful and she smells so good. He then continues, “When we are young, we don’t know many things. The flower makes my planet beautiful. It isn’t correct to leave her. Now I know it.” I believe that when . leaves his planet, wild birds help him. He then continues, “When we are young, we don’t know many things. The flower makes my planet beautiful. It isn’t correct to leave her. Now I know it.” I believe that when . leaves his planet, wild birds help him. On the morning of his departure, he prepares everything. He cleans his active volcanoes. There are two active volcanoes on his planet. They are very good when he needs to cook his breakfast in the morning. He also has one volcano which isn’t active. But, he says, “You never know!” So he cleans this volcano too. If the volcanoes are correctly cleaned, there are no eruptions. Of course, on Earth people are very small. They can’t clean volcanoes. And because people don’t clean them, the volcanoes can be a big problem. Before his departure, . also pulls the last little baobabs. He thinks that this is his last day on his planet. He doesn’t plan to come back. He gives water to his flower. Then he brings the glass. At that moment, he wants to cry. “Goodbye,” he says to the flower. But she doesn’t answer him. “Goodbye,” he says again. The flower coughs. But it is not because she is ill. “I am sometimes stupid,” the flower says. “I am sorry.” . is surprised that the flower is sorry. He doesn’t understand why the flower is nice to him. “Of course, I love you,” the flower tells him. “Maybe, you don’t feel that I love you. It is not your mistake. It is my mistake. It is not important now. But you are sometimes stupid too. Try to be happy. Don’t put the glass on me. I don’t need it.” “But the wind…” “The wind is not a problem. The night air is good for me. I am a flower.” “But the animals…” “I have to be stronger than two or three caterpillars if I want to see the butterflies. I think that they are very beautiful. If there are no butterflies here, who can visit me when you are so far? And I am not scared of big animals. I have my thorns.” And she shows all of her four thorns to .. Then she says, “Don’t stand here. You want to leave. So, go!” She says it because she doesn’t want to show her tears. She is a very proud flower. CHAPTER 11 – KING . is close to the asteroids 325, 326, 327, 328, 329 and 330. So he visits these asteroids first. He wants to be busy. He wants to learn something. There is a king on the first planet. The king has nice clothes. He is sitting on a big chair. “Ah! Here is a visitor,” the king says when he sees .. And . thinks, “How can he know who I am? He doesn’t know me.” “Come closer to me. I want to see you better,” says the king. He is very proud that he is a king for somebody now. . looks around. He needs a place where he can sit down. But the king’s clothes are on the whole planet. So . is standing. And because he is tired, he yawns. “It is not good to yawn before a king,” the king tells him. “You can’t do it.” “I can’t stop it,” says .. “My journey is very long, and I am tired.” “Then you have to yawn,” says the king, “People usually don’t yawn before me. It is very interesting. Yawn again!” . wants to yawn for the king. But he can’t do it now. He says, “I am sorry. I can’t yawn when you tell me to do it,” says .. The king is not happy because people must do what the king says. But, because he is a very good man, what he wants is reasonable. “Can I sit down?” . asks. “I order you to sit down,” the king says. And he pulls a piece of his clothes so that there is some space where . can sit down. . is thinking about one thing. The planet is very small. The king doesn’t control much. “Can I ask you a question?” says .. “I order you to ask me a question,” the king says. “What do you control?” “I control everything,” says the king. “Everything?” The king looks at his planet. Then he looks at the other planets, and all the stars. “Are you the king of all?” asks .. “I am the king of all,” says the king. He doesn’t control only his planet. He is the king of all the universe. “And do the stars do what you want?” “Of course,” says the king. “They do it fast. They do exactly what I want.” CHAPTER 12 – MOUSE The king’s power is very interesting for .. With such power, . can watch many sunsets every day, not only forty-four, but seventy-two, or a hundred, or two hundred on the same day. And he can still sit in one place. At that moment he remembers his little planet, and he feels a little sad. He asks the king for something, “I want to see a sunset. Please, can you order the sun to go down?” “If I order a general to fly from one flower to another like a butterfly, or to write a book, or to change into a sea bird, and if the general doesn’t do it, is it his mistake?” asks the king. “Your mistake,” says .. “Exactly. We must ask what others can do,” the king continues. “The control has to be reasonable. If you order your people to jump into the sea, they can start a revolution. I can control because my control is reasonable.” “And my sunset?” says ., who never forgets a question when he asks it. “You can have your sunset. I can order it. But I have my rules. We must wait. You can have your sunset when the conditions are right.” . doesn’t want to wait. “When are the conditions right for my sunset?” . asks. “Wait!” says the king, then he takes a big calendar. “This evening at seven forty. And you can see that everything is as I order. . yawns. He is sad that the conditions are not right for his sunset. Then this planet starts to be boring for him. “I have nothing to do here,” he says to the king. “I want to continue on my journey.” “Don’t go,” says the king. He is happy because finally he is a king for somebody. “Don’t go. You can be my minister!” “Minister of what?” “Minister of justice.” “But there is nobody here who I can judge.” “You never know,” says the king. “Maybe there is somebody here who we don’t see.” “But I can see all your planet,” says .. He looks at the planet again. “There is nobody else on the planet.” “You can judge you,” says the king, “It is very difficult. It is more difficult than to judge other people. If you can do it, it is because you are really a clever man.” “But if I want to judge me, I don’t have to be here,” says .. “I can do it in other places too.” “I believe,” says the king, “that somewhere on my planet there is a mouse. I hear the mouse at night. You can judge the mouse. You can send the mouse to prison.” “I don’t want to send the mouse to prison. Now I think that I can leave.” “No,” says the king. . is ready for his departure. But he doesn’t want to make the old king sad. So he says, “If you want to control me, you can give me a reasonable order. For example, you can tell me to leave now. I think that the conditions are right.” The king says nothing. . waits for a moment. Then he doesn’t want to wait longer. And he starts to leave. “You are my ambassador,” the king shouts. “Adults are very strange,” . thinks when he continues on his journey. CHAPTER 13 – PEOPLE . comes to the second planet. He sees another strange man. The man likes when people admire him. “Another person who admires me!” says the man when he sees .. He believes that all people admire him. “Good morning,” says .. “You have a funny hat.” “I use this hat when I say good morning to people who come to visit me. But not many people visit me here.” “Really?” says .. “Really. Clap your hands,” says the man. . claps his hands. And the man touches his hat and he moves the hat a little. “This is more fun than the visit to the king,” . thinks. . claps his hands again and again. The man touches his hat again and again. After five minutes of this exercise . starts to be tired of this game. “Do you only touch your hat? Or can you do something else?” he asks. But the man doesn’t hear him. This type of people never hear other people. They hear only when somebody admires them. “Do you really admire me very much?” he asks .. “What is ‘admire’?” “To admire is to believe that I am the most handsome, the richest and the most intelligent man on the planet.” “But you are the only man on your planet!” “Yes, I know that I am the only man on this planet. But please admire me.” “I admire you,” says ., “but I don’t understand why it is so important to you.” . has nothing else to do on this planet. So he continues on his journey. “Adults are very strange,” he thinks when he is leaving this planet. When . visits the next planet, he sees a man. This man drinks a lot. He is drunk. This is a very short visit. And it is a sad visit. “What are you doing?” he asks the drunk man. The drunk man sits before bottles. Some bottles are empty. Some bottles are full. “I am drinking,” says the drunk man. His face is not happy. “Why are you drinking?” . asks. “I want to forget,” says the drunk man. “To forget what?” asks .. “To forget that I feel horrible,” says the drunk man. And he puts his head down. “Why do you feel horrible?” asks .. . wants to help the drunk man. “I feel horrible because I drink so much. I know that it is bad to drink so much!” says the drunk man. Then he is quiet. . leaves the planet. “Adults are very, very strange,” he thinks when he continues on his journey. CHAPTER 14 – BUSINESSMAN . visits the fourth planet. There is a businessman on this planet. He is very busy. He is so busy that he doesn’t look at . when . comes. “Good morning,” says .. “Your cigarette is finished.” “Three and two make five. Five and seven make twelve. Twelve and three make fifteen. Hello. Fifteen and seven make twenty-two. Twenty-two and six make twentyeight. I have no time to light the cigarette again. Twenty-six and five make thirty-one. It is five hundred and one million, six hundred and twenty-two thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one.” “Five hundred million what?” asks .. “Are you still here? Five hundred and one million… I don’t remember. I have so much work to do! I am a serious man. I don’t want to lose my time with things which are not important. Two and five make seven…” “Five hundred million what?” repeats .. He wants the answer to his question. The businessman looks at ., “I am fifty-four years old. I don’t like when somebody stops my work. It doesn’t happen often. I remember only three times. The first time, twenty-two years ago. A bird falls on my table. The bird makes a horrible sound. And I make four mistakes in my calculation. The second time, eleven years ago, I have rheumatism. I don’t have enough exercise. I don’t have time for such activity. I am a serious man. The third time is now! Where am I? Five hundred and one million…” “Million what?” The businessman understands that if he wants to have peace, he has to answer this question. “Millions of those little things which you sometimes see in the sky.” “Flies?” “No, not flies.” “Bees?” “No. The little golden things. Lazy people like them because they can dream when they look at them. But I am a serious man! I have no time to dream.” “Ah, stars?” “Yes, the stars.” “And what do you do with five hundred million stars?” “Five hundred and one million, six hundred and twenty-two thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one. I am a serious person. I need numbers which are correct.” “And what do you do with those stars?” “Nothing. I own them.” “You own the stars?” “Yes.” “But I know a king who…” “Kings don’t own. They control. It is very different.” “And why is it good to own stars?” “When I own stars, I am rich.” “And why is it good to be rich?” “When I am rich, then I can buy more stars if somebody discovers them.” “But how can you own the stars?” “It is simple. Who owns them?” asks the businessman. “I don’t know. Nobody.” “Then I own them because I am the first person who has this idea.” “Is it enough?” “Of course. When you find a diamond, it is your diamond. When you discover an island, it is your island. When you have a new idea, you patent it and it is your idea. Now I own the stars because I am the first person who has this idea.” “It is true,” says .. “And what do you do with them?” “I look at them. I count them and I count them again,” says the businessman. “It is difficult. But I am a serious man! . wants to know more. “If I own a jacket, I can put the jacket on me and I can take it with me. If I own a flower, I can pick the flower and take the flower with me. But you can’t pick the stars!” “No, but I can keep them in the bank.” “How can you do it?” “It is easy. I write the number of my stars on a little paper. And then I put the paper in the bank.” “And it is enough?” “It is enough,” says the businessman. “It is funny,” thinks .. “But it is not very serious.” . says to the businessman, “I own a flower. I give her water every day. I own three volcanoes. I clean the volcanoes every week. I also clean the volcano which isn’t active. You never know. It is good for my volcanoes. It is good for my flower that I own her. I help my flower and I help my volcanoes. But you don’t help the stars. The businessman opens his mouth but he can’t find words. And . leaves. “The adults are very interesting,” he thinks when he continues on his journey. CHAPTER 15 – LAMP The fifth planet is very interesting. It is a very small planet. There is only a lamp and a lamplighter on this planet. . doesn’t understand why there is a lamp and a lamplighter on the planet. There is enough light because the planet is under many stars. There are no other people on the planet who need a lamp. . thinks, “This man is strange. But he is less strange than the king, the businessman or the drunk man. His work makes the world more beautiful. When he turns on his lamp, it is like a new star in the sky, or new flower. When he turns off his lamp, he sends the flower, or the star to sleep. It is a beautiful job. And because it is beautiful, it is a good job.” When . comes on the planet, he says to the lamplighter, “Good morning. Why do you turn on and turn off your lamp?” “It is an order,” says the lamplighter. And he turns off the lamp. “What is the order?” “The order is to turn on and turn off my lamp. Good evening.” And he turns on his lamp again. “But why do you do it so often?” “It is the order,” says the lamplighter. I don’t understand,” says .. “It is simple,” says the lamplighter. “The order is the order. Good morning.” And he turns off his lamp. Then he says, “It is a terrible job now. I remember better days in the past. I turn off the lamp in the morning. In the evening I turn on the lamp again. I have all the day for me, and at night I can sleep.” “And is the order different now?” “The order is the same,” says the lamplighter. “It is the problem! Year by year the planet is turning faster and faster. And the order is still the same! Now the planet turns around every minute. And I have no time to sleep. I turn on and I turn off my lamp every minute.” “It is funny! Your day is only one minute long.” “It is not funny,” says the lamplighter. “Our conversation is already one month long.” “A month?” “Yes. Thirty minutes. Thirty days. Good evening.” And he turns on his lamp again. . watches the lamplighter. He likes more and more this man who follows the order. He wants to help his new friend. “I can show you how you can stop your work.” “I always want to stop my work,” says the lamplighter. . continues, “Your planet is so small that you can walk around it in three long steps. You only have to walk more slowly. And you can always be in the sun. When you want to stop your work, only walk. And you never have to work again.” “How can this help me?” says the lamplighter. “The one thing which I love in life is to sleep.” “Then you are not lucky,” says .. “I am not lucky,” says the lamplighter. “Good morning.” And he turns off his lamp. . continues on his journey. He thinks, “The other men, the king, the drunk man, the businessman can laugh at this lamplighter. But he is better than the other men. It is because he cares about something else, not only his things. This man can be my friend. But his planet is too small. There is no place for two people.” . doesn’t want to say the real reason why he doesn’t want to leave this planet. He doesn’t want to leave because the planet has one thousand four hundred and forty sunsets every twenty-four hours! CHAPTER 16 – GEOGRAPHER The sixth planet is bigger than the last planet. . sees an old gentleman. The man writes big books. “Oh, here comes an explorer,” he says when he sees .. . sits down on the table. He is tired from travelling so long and so far. “Where are you from?” the old gentleman asks him. “What is this big book?” asks .. “What are you doing here?” “I am a geographer,” the old gentleman answers. “What is a geographer?” “A geographer is somebody who knows where the seas are, and rivers, cities, mountains and deserts.” “It is very interesting,” says .. “Finally here is a man who has a real job,” he thinks. And he looks around at the geographer’s planet. “Your planet is very beautiful,” he says. “Does the planet have oceans?” “I can’t say,” says the geographer. “Ah!” . is sad. “And mountains?” “I can’t say,” says the geographer. “And cities and rivers and deserts?” “I can’t tell you,” says the geographer. “But you are a geographer!” “It is true,” says the geographer, “but I am not an explorer. There is no explorer on my planet. The geographer doesn’t discover cities, rivers, mountains, seas, oceans and deserts. The geographer doesn’t have time for travelling. He doesn’t leave his office. But the explorers visit him in his office. He asks them questions and he writes what they remember. And if the information is interesting to him, then the geographer has to ask more questions about the explorer. He has to know if the explorer is a good person.” . wants to know why the explorer has to be a good person. The geographer says, “An explorer who is a bad person can give information which is not correct. And also an explorer who drinks very much can give bad information.” “Why?” asks .. “Because drunk people don’t see correctly. Then the geographer can draw two mountains in a place where there is only one.” “I know somebody,” says ., “who drinks a lot. He can be a bad explorer.” “It is possible. So when the explorer is a good person, then I have to check if his information is correct.” “Do you visit the place?” “No. It is too complicated. But the explorer has to give me proof. For example, if he knows about a big mountain, the explorer has to bring some stone from the mountain.” Then the geographer smiles. “But you come from very far! You are an explorer! You must tell me about your planet!” The geographer opens his big book. He prepares his pen. “Tell me about your home,” says the geographer. “Oh, where I live,” says .,” it is not very interesting. It is very small. I have three volcanoes. Two volcanoes are active, and one volcano isn’t active. But you never know.” “You never know,” says the geographer. “I also have a flower.” “We don’t write about flowers,” says the geographer. “Why not? The flower is the most beautiful thing on my planet!” “Because flowers don’t live very long. In geography we have very correct books. Our books are almost always true. A mountain usually doesn’t change its position. An ocean usually doesn’t lose its water. We write about things which are here for a long time.” “But volcanoes which aren’t active can be active again,” says .. “If volcanoes are active or not, it is the same for us,” says the geographer. “A volcano is a mountain. It is important. A mountain doesn’t change. Your flower is different. Your flower can be gone soon.” “My flower can be gone soon?” “Of course.” “My flower can be gone soon,” thinks ., “and she has only four thorns for protection! And she is home alone!” . is sad. But he wants to continue on his journey. “What is an interesting place to visit?” he asks. “The planet Earth,” the geographer answers. “It is a nice planet.” And . continues on his way. He is still thinking about his flower. CHAPTER 17 – EARTH The seventh planet is the Earth. The Earth is a very big planet. There are a hundred and eleven kings on Earth. There are also seven thousand geographers, nine hundred thousand businessmen, seven and a half million drunk men, three hundred and eleven million men who need to be admired. Together two billion adults live on this planet. The Earth is really big. I want to show you how big the planet is. I want to give you one example. Before electricity, four hundred and sixty-two thousand, five hundred and eleven lamplighters work on Earth. These lamplighters have to turn on and turn off the lamps on six continents. When you look at the Earth from some distance, you can see a beautiful show. The lamplighters are like the dancers in the opera. Their organization is perfect. The lamplighters of New Zealand and Australia come first. They turn on their lamps. Then the lamplighters of China come, then the lamplighters of Russia and India, then the lamplighters of Africa and Europe, then the lamplighters of South America and of North America. And they never make a mistake. It is beautiful. Only the lamplighter of one lamp at the North Pole, and his colleague at the South Pole, have easy lives. They work twice a year. When I speak about the lamplighters, you can think that there are many people on Earth. Now I want to tell you more about people on Earth. People take very little space on Earth. If the two billion people on Earth stand close together, they can all be in one square. The square is twenty miles long and twenty miles wide. You can put all people on a small island. Of course, adults don’t believe this information. They think that they take a lot of space. They think that they are as important as the baobabs. But they can make their own calculation. They love numbers and they like to count. But you don’t have to do it. It is not necessary. Believe me. When . comes on Earth, he is surprised. He is surprised because he doesn’t see any people. He starts to think that he is on the wrong planet. But then he sees something in the sand. “Good evening,” says .. “Good evening,” says the snake. “What is this planet?” asks .. “It is the planet Earth. You are in Africa,” the snake says. “Ah, are there no people on Earth?” “This is the desert. There are no people in the desert,” says the snake. . sits down on a rock. He looks at the stars. “Look at my planet,” . says, “my planet is up there. But it is very far.” “It is beautiful,” the snake says. “Why are you here?” “I have some problems with a flower,” says .. “Ah!” says the snake. And he is quiet. CHAPTER 18 – GARDEN “Where are the people?” . continues in the conversation with the snake after some time. “I feel alone in the desert.” “You feel alone with people too,” says the snake. . looks at him for a long time. “You are a funny animal,” he says, “You are very slim.” The snake says, “I am slim but I am stronger than a king.” . smiles, “You are not very strong. You don’t have legs. You can’t travel very far.” “I can take you very far,” the snake says. He turns around .’s leg. “When I touch somebody, I can send the person back to the land from which he comes,” the snake says, “but you are a good person, and you come from a star.” The snake continues, “You are so weak on this planet. I can help you one day if you want to go back to your planet. I can bite you. And you can travel very far.” “Oh! I understand,” says .. . says goodbye to the snake. Then he is walking in the desert. He meets a flower. “Good morning,” says .. “Good morning,” says the flower. “Where are the people?” . asks. “People?” I believe that six or seven people live on Earth. I see them sometimes in a caravan. But you never know where they are. The life is very difficult for them because they don’t have any roots. The wind takes them away. “Goodbye,” says .. “Goodbye,” says the flower. . sees a high mountain. The only mountains which he knows are the three volcanoes which are as high as his knees. He thinks, “From this high mountain, I can see the whole planet and all the people.” He goes to the top of the mountain. But he only sees other mountains around. “Hello,” he says. “Hello, hello, hello,” the echo answers. “Who are you?” asks .. “Who are you? Who are you? Who are you?” the echo answers. “Let’s be friends, I am alone,” he says. “I am alone, I am alone, I am alone,” the echo answers. “This is a strange planet!” he thinks. “The planet is dry and hard. And people here only repeat what you say to them. On my planet I have a flower. She always speaks first.” . is walking for a long time through sand and rocks. Then he finally sees a road. And all roads go to people. “Good morning,” says .. He is standing before a garden full of roses. “Good morning,” say the roses. . is looking at the roses. They all look like his flower. He is surprised. “Who are you?” he asks. “We are roses,” the roses say. “Ah!” says .. And he is very unhappy. His flower says that she is the only flower of her kind in the whole universe. And here are five thousand roses, all the same, in one garden! He thinks, “So my rose is not very special. I have only a normal rose. So I have a normal rose and three volcanoes which are as high as my knees. It isn’t much. I think that I am not a great prince.” And, he is lying in the grass and he is very sad. CHAPTER 19 – FOX Then the fox comes. “Good morning,” says the fox. “Good morning,” . says. “Who are you? You are very pretty.” “I am a fox,” says the fox. “Play with me,” . says, “I am very sad.” “I can’t play with you. I am wild,” the fox says. “Ah! I am sorry,” says .. But after some time, he asks, “What is wild?” “You are not from here,” says the fox. “What are you looking for?” “I am looking for people,” says .. “What is wild?” “People,” says the fox, “have guns. They hunt. It is a problem for me. They also have chickens. I like chickens. Are you looking for chickens?” “No,” says .. “I am looking for friends. What is wild?” “When I am wild, I am not connected to you and you are not connected to me.” “You are not connected to me?” “It is true,” the fox says. “For me you are only a little boy, like other little boys. And I don’t need you. And you don’t need me. For you I am only a fox like other foxes. But if I am not wild for you, you need me and I need you. You can be the only boy in the world for me. I can be the only fox in the world for you.” “I start to understand,” . says. “I have a flower. I think that she isn’t wild for me.” “It is possible,” says the fox. “On Earth we can see many different things.” “Oh, my flower is not on Earth,” . says. The fox asks, “On another planet?” “Yes.” “Are there hunters on your planet?” “No.” “It is interesting. And chickens?” “No.” “Oh, nothing is perfect,” says the fox. After some time, the fox says. “My life is always the same. I hunt chickens. Men hunt me. All the chickens are similar, and all the men are similar too. So, it is a little boring. My life can be better if I am not wild for you. When I hear your steps, I can be happy. The other steps can scare me. But your steps are like music to me. And it is not all. Do you see the corn fields there? I don’t eat bread. For me corn is not important. The corn fields say nothing to me. And it is sad. But you have golden hair. You hair is beautiful. The corn is also golden. When I see the corn, I remember you. When I hear the wind in the corn, I can be happy.” The fox is quiet. The fox looks at . for a long time. “Please, stay with me for some days!” the fox says. “It can be nice to stay with you,” says .. “But I don’t have much time. I want to find friends. I want to learn new things.” “We only learn about things which are connected to us,” says the fox. “People don’t have time to learn. They buy things from shops. But because there are no shops where you can buy friends, people don’t have friends. If you want a friend, be connected to me!” “OK, what do I have to do?” asks .. “You have to be very patient,” says the fox. “First, you have to help me not to be wild. You have to sit at a little distance from me in the grass. I can watch you with one eye and you say nothing. Words can be a problem sometimes. But every day you can sit a little closer.” CHAPTER 20 – SECRET The next day . returns. “It is better if you return at the same hour,” says the fox. “If you come, for example, at four in the afternoon, then at three I start to be happy. At three thirty I am more happy. At four I am very happy. I can show you how happy I am. But if you come at different time, I don’t know when I can start to be happy. We need some rules.” “Why do we need rules?” asks .. “The rules are important. They make one day different from other days. The rules make one hour different from other hours. For example, hunters have their rules too. They dance with the girls from the village every Thursday. So Thursday is a beautiful day. I can walk to the village with no problems. If the hunters dance on different days, I don’t know when it is holiday for me. So . spends some time with the fox every day. And when the hour of his departure is near, the fox says, “Ah! I’m sad. I want to cry.” “It is your mistake,” says ., “I don’t want to hurt you. But you want to be with me.” “Yes, of course,” says the fox. “But you cry!” says .. “Yes, of course,” says the fox. “But then you get nothing!” “I get something,” says the fox, “the colour of the corn helps me get something.” Then the fox says, “Go and look again at the roses. You can understand now that your rose is special. Then come back to say goodbye to me. I have a present for you. The present is a secret. . goes to look at the roses again. He speaks to them. “You are not like my rose,” . says, “you are nothing to me at this moment. Nobody is connected to you and you are connected to nobody. You are like my fox on the first day, not connected to me. But the fox is my friend now, and the fox is special to me.” Then he continues, “You are beautiful, but you are empty. Nobody wants to die for you. Of course, if somebody only walks around my rose, my rose is not special to this person. But my rose is more important to me than all the other roses because she is the rose who I give water. She is the rose who I put under the glass. She is my rose. I listen to her when she is not happy. And I listen to her when she is happy.” . returns to the fox. “Goodbye,” he says. “Goodbye,” says the fox. “Here is my secret. It is a simple secret. You see clearly only with the heart. What is important, eyes can’t see.” “What is important, eyes can’t see,” repeats .. He wants to remember this secret. “The time which you spend with your rose makes your rose so important.” “The time which I spend with my rose makes my rose so important,” says .. “People forget one truth,” says the fox. “But this truth is important. You are responsible for something what is connected to you. You are responsible for your rose.” “I am responsible for my rose,” . repeats. CHAPTER 21 – TRAINS “Good morning,” says .. “Good morning,” says the man who works at the railway station. “What do you do here?” . asks. “I change the direction of the trains,” says the man. “I send some trains to the right, some trains to the left. And at that moment a train goes around very fast. “They hurry,” says .. “What are they looking for?” “Nobody knows what they are looking for,” says the man. And a second train goes around, in the opposite direction. “Are they going back?” asks .. “They are not the same people,” says the man. “They are different people. They are coming back.” “They are not happy where they are?” “People are never happy where they are,” says the man. And a third train goes around. “Do they want to catch the first people?” asks .. “They don’t want to catch anybody,” says the man. “They are sleeping. Or they are looking outside the windows. Only the children are pressing their noses against the windows.” “Only the children know what they are looking for,” says .. “Children use their time to play with toys. And the toys start to be very important to them. And if somebody takes their toys, they cry.” “Children are lucky,” the man says. . continues on his journey. “Good morning,” says . when he meets a businessman. “Good morning,” says the businessman. He is a businessman who sells pills. The pills help people when they are thirsty. If you take one pill a week, you don’t have to drink. “Why do you sell the pills?” asks .. “Because the pills save a lot of time,” says the businessman. “The pills can save fiftythree minutes a week.” “And what do you do with the fifty-three minutes?” “What I want.” “When I have fifty-three minutes,” . says, “I like to walk very slowly to a fountain.” CHAPTER 22 – DESERT It is now the eighth day after my accident in the desert. I listen to the story about the businessman and I am drinking my last water. “Your stories are very nice,” I say to ., “but my plane is still broken. I have nothing to drink. I also want to walk very slowly to a fountain.” “My friend, the fox, says that…” “My dear little man, this has nothing to do with the fox.” “Why not?” “Because soon I am dead.” But . says, “It is good to have a friend. And if you can die soon, it is good to have a friend too. I am very happy that I have a fox as a friend.” “He doesn’t see the danger,” I think. “He is never hungry or thirsty. He only needs a little sunshine.” But he looks at me and maybe he knows what I am thinking because he says, “I am thirsty too. Let’s look for a well.” It is crazy to look for a well in this big desert. But we start to walk. We walk for many hours. Then the night comes. The stars start to shine. I see them as in a dream. I am very thirsty. The last words of . dance in my head. “So, you are thirsty, too?” I ask him. But he doesn’t answer my question. He only says to me, “Water can also be good for the heart.” I don’t understand his answer, but I say nothing. I already know that he doesn’t answer my questions. He is tired. He sits down. I sit down next to him. After a quiet moment, . speaks again, “The stars are beautiful because there is a flower on one of them.” “Sure,” I say. Then I look at the sand. The sand is all around us. We see the sand in the light of the moon. “The desert is beautiful,” he says. It is true. I always love the desert. When I sit down on sand in the desert. I see nothing. I hear nothing. But something beats and something shines in the desert. CHAPTER 23 – WELL “The desert is beautiful,“ says ., “because it hides a well somewhere.” I agree with .. When I am a little boy, we live in an old house. And people say a story about the house. The story says that the house has a treasure somewhere in the floor. Of course, nobody can find the treasure. Maybe, nobody is really looking for it. But this treasure makes the house special. My home is hiding a secret. “Yes,” I say to ., “what is beautiful, we can’t see!” “I am happy,” he says, “that you agree with my fox.” Then . starts to sleep. I take him in my arms. I start to walk again. I am full of emotions. I am holding .. I feel that I am holding a great treasure. In the moonlight, I look at his white face, his closed eyes, his golden hair which moves in the wind. And I think, “What I see here is only a shell. What is most important, we don’t see.” And when his mouth opens a little with a smile, I think again, “What is so beautiful about this little prince is his relationship with his flower. I can see a picture of a rose which shines from his heart when he sleeps.” I feel that I have to protect this light. The wind can take the light away. I continue to walk. And in the morning, I see the well. . wakes up and he says, “People get on their trains, but they don’t know what they are looking for. People run around. It is not necessary.” The well is not like the wells of the Sahara. The wells of the Sahara are only holes in the sand. This well looks more like a village well. But there is no village here. And I think that I am in a dream. “It is strange,” I say to ., “everything is ready, the bucket, the rope.” . laughs. He takes the rope. And he lets the bucket go down the well. When the bucket is going down, we hear some interesting sound. “Can you hear it?” says .. “The well is singing.” CHAPTER 24 – WATER When the bucket is full of water, I say, “I can pull the bucket up. The bucket is very heavy for you.” Slowly I pull the bucket up. I leave the bucket on top of the well. I am tired but happy. The song of the well is still in my ears. When I look at the bucket, I can see the sunshine in the water. “I am thirsty,” says .. “I want to drink this water now.” I help him hold the bucket. He drinks with his eyes closed. It is nice. It is a special moment. The water isn’t only a drink. The water comes from our walk under the stars. It is made from the song of the well, from the work of our arms. It is good for the heart, like a present. When I am a little boy, I like Christmas very much. It is a special time. I like the light of the Christmas tree, the Christmas music, the smiles of the people. All these things make the Christmas time and Christmas presents special. “Where you live,” says ., “the people have five thousand roses in one garden, but they don’t find what they are looking for. But what they are looking for, they can find in one rose or in a little water.” “Yes, it is true,” I say. And . says, “But the eyes don’t see it. You have to look with the heart.” I drink a lot of water. I feel well now. The sand at sunrise is the colour of honey. And that colour is making me happy, too. So I don’t understand why I feel so sad. “Do you remember your promise?” says . when he sits down next to me. “What promise?” “You know, a fence which can protect my flower from my sheep. I am responsible for this flower.” I take my pictures out of my pocket. . looks at them. He laughs when he sees the baobabs. “Your baobabs look like some vegetable.” “Oh!” I am very proud of my baobabs. “Your fox, his ears look like horns, and they are too long!” And he laughs again. “You are not fair, little prince,” I say, “I can’t draw. I can draw only snakes from the outside and snakes from the inside.” “Oh, it is OK,” he says, “it is OK for children. The children understand.” I draw a fence. And I give the fence to . with a heavy heart. “You have plans which I don’t know. Maybe something ends here.” But he doesn’t answer me. He says to me, “You must work now. You must go back to your plane. I can wait here. Come back tomorrow.” CHAPTER 25 – WALL Next to the well there is an old wall. When I come back from my work the next evening, I see . from some distance. He is sitting on top of the wall. He is talking to somebody. He says. “This is not the right place.” Some voice must say something to him because . says, “Yes, yes, this is the right day, but it is not the right place.” I continue my walk to the wall. I still can’t see or hear anybody. But . says again, “Sure. You can follow my steps in the sand. You only have to follow me to that place. It can all happen tonight. I am twenty meters from the wall and I still can’t see anything. . speaks again, after a pause. “Do you have good poison? Are you sure that you can do it very quickly?” I stop. My heart is beating strongly. But I still don’t understand the situation. “Now go away,” says .. “I want to go down from the wall”. Then I look down at the sand under the wall. I am shocked. There is a yellow snake there. It is a snake which can kill you in thirty seconds. I want to take my revolver. But when I am trying to take it, I also make a step back. The snake hears it. He starts to move and he is quickly gone in the rocks. I still hear him but I don’t see him. I come to the wall. I catch . in my arms. His face is very white. “What are you doing here?” I want to know. “Why are you talking with the snake?” He looks at me. His eyes are sad. He puts his arms around my neck. I feel his heart. His heart is beating like the heart of a bird which is dying. He says to me, “I am happy that your plane is OK. Now you can go home.” “How do you know it?” I am here because I want to tell him that my work is finished. He doesn’t answer my question, but he says, “I can go back home today, too. It is very far. I need somebody’s help for my next journey.” CHAPTER 26 – PRESENT I know that something strange is happening. I am holding . in my arms like a little child. But I feel that he is falling down into a big hole. And I know that I can’t help him. His face is very serious now. He says, “I have the sheep. And I have the box for the sheep. And I have the fence.” And he smiles sadly. I wait for a long time. I see that he is feeling a little better. Then I say, “Dear little man, you are scared.” Yes, he is scared, but he laughs a little, “I am scared of tonight.” It is difficult for me. I know that it is not possible to change what . wants to do. I can’t imagine my life without the sound of .’s laugh. For me, it is like a fountain in the desert. “Little man,” I say, “I want to hear you laugh again. But he says to me, “Tonight it is already a year. My star is exactly in the same place as last year. “My little friend, is this only a bad dream? Is the meeting with the snake, the plan for tonight only a bad dream?” But he doesn’t answer my question. He says to me, “What is important, we can’t see.” “Yes, I know.” “It is the same with the flower. If you love a flower which lives on a star, it is good to look at the sky at night. Then all the stars have flowers.” “Yes, I know.” “At night, you can watch the stars,” . says. “My star is very small. I can’t show you where my star is. It is better if you don’t know. My star can be one of the many stars for you. So, when you look at the stars, they can all be your friends. I have a present for you,” says . and he laughs again. “Ah, little prince, my little prince! I love to hear you laugh,” I say. “This is my present, my laugh,” says .. CHAPTER 27 – BELLS “I am not sure if I understand,” I say. “Your laugh is a present?” “People look at stars, but the stars are not the same for everybody. For people who travel, the stars are guides. For other people the stars are nothing, only small lights in the sky. For scientists, they are problems. For my businessman, the stars are important because they make him rich. But all these stars are quiet stars. For you, it is different. You have stars like nobody else. When you look at the sky at night, there is one star where I live. And because I laugh on one of these stars, you can feel that all stars are laughing. You have stars which laugh.” And he laughs again. “When I leave,” . continues, “you can be sad. But believe me, time can help you be less sad. Then you can be happy that you know me. You can always be my friend. You can always laugh with me. And sometimes you can open your window only for fun. And your friends can see you how you laugh at the sky. You can tell them, ‘Yes, the stars always make me laugh!’ And your friends can think that you are crazy. But it is OK.” And he laughs again. “And for you the stars can be like little bells which laugh.” And he laughs again. Then he is serious again, “Tonight, don’t stay with me.” “I don’t want to leave you,” I say. “Tonight, it can look as if I feel pain. It can look as if I am dying. Don’t come to see it. It is not necessary.” “I don’t want to leave you.” But he says, “I also ask you not to come because the snake can bite you. Snakes are bad sometimes. Snakes can bite you only for fun.” Then he says, “It is also true that snakes have no poison for the second bite.” Then the comes. I don’t see . leave. I don’t hear him when he goes away from me. When I catch him, he is walking fast. He only says to me, “Ah! You are here.” And he takes my hand. But he is not happy. “It is wrong that you are here. It is not good for you. It can look as if I am dead. But I am not dead.” I am quiet. “You must understand. My star is too far. I can’t take this body with me. It is too heavy.” I am quiet. “When you see only an empty shell, don’t be sad. There is nothing sad about empty shells.” I am quiet. He tries to explain it again. He says, “This night can be very nice for me. All the stars can be wells with a rope and a bucket. All the stars can have water for me.” I am quiet. “It is great fun! You can have five hundred million little bells. And I can have five hundred million fountains.” And he is quiet too because he is crying. CHAPTER 28 – DEPARTURE “Here is the place. Let me continue alone,” says .. And he sits down because he is scared. Then he says, “My flower is on my planet. I am responsible for her. And she is so weak! She has only four thorns which can’t protect her enough.” I sit down too because I can’t stand. “It is all,” he says. He waits for some time. Then he stands up. He takes one step. I can’t move. I see something yellow which moves quickly near his leg. He doesn’t move for a moment. He doesn’t cry. Then he falls slowly as a tree falls. Now it is six years after .’s departure. This is the first time when I tell this story. When I return, the people are happy when they see me. I am sad because . is gone. But I say to the people that I am not sad, that I am only tired. Now I am not so sad. I know that . is on his planet because I don’t find his body at sunrise. And at night, I love to listen to the stars. It is like five hundred million little bells. But here is something interesting. The fence for the sheep is not very big. So sometimes I think, “What is happening on his planet? If the sheep jumps over the fence, the sheep can eat the flower.” But sometimes I think, “Of course not. . puts his flower under the glass every night and he watches his sheep well.” Then I am happy. And all the stars laugh a little. Sometimes I think, “Everybody can forget sometimes. Everybody can forget to put the glass over the flower in the evening. And the sheep can come to the flower in the night and…” Then the bells change to tears. For some people it is not important. But for you who also love . and for me, these things are important. So, look up at the sky. And ask the question, “Is the flower still on .’s planet?” And you can see how everything changes. And adults can never understand that this is so important. For me, this is a very beautiful and also very sad land. I want to make another picture of this land. It is the same as the picture before, but I want to draw the land again. I want to remember the land better. It is the land where I say goodbye to .. Look at this picture carefully because you can come to this place one day when you travel in Africa, in the desert. And, if you really come to this place, please don’t hurry. Wait for a little moment. Then if a little man comes, if he laughs, if he has golden hair and he doesn’t answer your questions, you know who he is. If this happens, please write to me quickly that . is back.
Rich Man, Poor Man Level 2 Brought the story from: https: https://learnenglish-new.com/ If you want to download the book: https://learnenglish-new.com/ Chapter 1 A Letter for Adam One day a postman came to my village. The postman brought me a letter from my son, Saul “Is your name Adam?“ the postman asked. “Yes,“ I said. “I have got a letter for you.” The postman read the envelope: “Adam of the village of Minta.” “A letter for me. Who is it from?” I asked. The postman looked at the envelope again. “From Saul,” he said. He gave me the letter and walked away. “Martha, Martha,” I called to my wife. “Come here. We have a letter from our son, Saul.” Martha came out and looked at the letter. She was excited but she was also worried. “A letter from Saul,” she said. “Is he alive and well? I’m going to find the school teacher. He can read the letter.” There was no school fifty years ago. So I cannot read or write. I live in a small village. The only work is farming. My only son, Saul left the village two years ago and my three daughters are married. Saul is making a lot of money in a foreign country. Martha and the school teacher came back. A lot of other people came. Everyone wanted to hear my letter. The school teacher opened the envelope and read the letter. 20 Taylor Street, London E. 19, England 16 March Dear Father, I am living in London. I have a job in a factory. The work is very hard, I often work at night. But the pay is good. I am well and I live with people from my country. I am sending you 100 pounds in this letter. This is for you and my mother. Love to you and mother. Saul. “One hundred pounds!” I said to the school teacher. “You’re wrong. It’s a mistake.” “No”, the school teacher said. “I’m not wrong. It’s not a mistake. Here is the money.” And he gave me a piece of paper. “What is this?” I asked. “A money order,” the school teacher said. “Go to Darpur. Take this money order to the Post Office in Darpur. The money order is worth one hundred pounds. The Post Office official will give you the money.” “ One hundred pounds!” I said again . Everyone laughed and said, “ Adam, you are a rich man. You can buy many things for your farm and for your house.” “And I can buy some good food and drink in Darpur. I am going to give a party for youall,” I told my friends. Martha said, “ Saul is a good son.” That evening, the village people talked about the money order and my money. Martha and I also talked about the money. We needed many things for the farm. Chapter 2: Adam Goes to Darpur The next morning I got up very early. It was dark and everyone was asleep. But I was going to Darpur. I washed and dressed carefully. I put on my best clothes and I carried my best stick. I put the money order carefully in my pocket and I said goodbye to Martha. I walked ten miles to the main road. I sat down at the main road and ate my breakfast. I waited for the bus. I waited for two hours. Then the bus came and I got on. It is a long way to Darpur. The bus takes three hours. I arrived in Darpur and walked to the Post Office immediately. I do not often go to Darpur. I only know the market, and one shop. This is the shop of Rick. I buy things for my farm from Rick There were a lot of people in the Post Office. I asked about money orders. A man showed me the queue. There was a long line of people and I waited at the back. Finally it was my turn ; I was at the front of the queue. But the official did not serve me. “Excuse me,” I said . “It’s my turn. I’m next.” “You are next? Old man, I’m very busy,” the official said. “Look at my papers. Look at all these people. I am very busy. And you must wait,” So I waited. Finally the official looked at me. “What do you want?” he asked. I gave him my money order. “This is my money orderfor one hundred pounds,” I replied. The official held out his hand. “Identity Card,” he said. “Excuse me. I don’t understand,” I replied “Your Identity Card,” the official said again. “Give me your Identity Card.” “What is an Identity Card?” I asked. “I can’t give you any money for this money order. First I must see your Identity Card. Your Identity Card gives your name and your address. Your Identity Card describes you. There is a photograph of you in your Identity Card. I don’t know you. Who are you?” The official was a little angry. But I was also angry. “Who am I?” I said. “Everyone knows me. I am Adam of the village of Minta. I haven’t got an Identity Card and I don’t need an Identity Card.” “Old man, I’m very busy and you’re very stupid,” the official said. “ Who are you? Where is Minta? “Give me my money. Give me my one hundred pounds,” I said. The official looked angry and said, “Show me your Identity Card. I don’t know you.” The official gave back my money order and he turned away. “Where can I buy an Identity Card?” I asked the official. He did not speak to me. He did not answer. “Go to the Ministry of the Interior,” a man said. He was standing in the queue. And he told me the way. Chapter 3: An Identity Card I walked to the Ministry of the Interior. I waited in another queue. I spoke to another official. I asked for an Identity Card. “Fill in this application from, the official said. “And bring the form and three photographs of yourself and two pounds. Come back tomorrow.” “Tomorrow?” I said. “Can I have an Identity Card today? I live in Minta. I live five hours’ journey from Darpur. I’m an old man.” “Yes, come back tomorrow.” And the official turned away. I walked away from the Ministry of the Interior, I walked to the market. At the market I looked at everyone. I was looking for a man from my village. But I could not find a villager. So then I walked to the shop of Rick. I spoke to Rick. “I want an Identity Card,” I told him. “But I need three photographs of myself.” “I see. You need some photographs.” And he showed me the way to a photographer. I found the house. The photographer was asleep but he came to me quickly. The man’s clothes were dirty and he looked tired. “I need an Identity Card,” I said. “I want three photographs of myself.” “Yes, you want three photographs of yourself,” the photographer replied. “And I take very good photographs. Come and see my camera.” We walked into his room. In the middle of the room was a large camera. “This is the best camera in Darpur. This camera is very, very good,” the photographer said proudly. “I’ve never seen a camera,” I said. “I don’t know about cameras. Hurry up and take a photograph of me.” “Please do not hurry me, old man,” the photographer said. I am an artist. “And he gave me a mirror and a comb. I don’t want a mirror, I don’t want a comb. Please take my photograph. I’m going to Minta this afternoon. And I’m in a hurry,” I said. “Yes,“ he said. “ But first the price. This is the best camera in Darpur and I’m the best photographer. Three photographs will cost you two pounds fifty.” “Two pounds fifty!” And I laughed. “Two pounds fifty-and pay me now please,” the photographer answered. I did not know the price of photographs. What could I do? Then the photographer said, “You are an old man. For you, the price is two pounds.” So I gave him the money and he took the photographs. “Come back tomorrow morning,” he said. “I want my three photographs now, immediately,” I said. “Don’t be stupid,” the photographer said. Photographs take twenty-four hours. Come back tomorrow.” What could I do? So I said, “Yes. Tomorrow morning.” “Good,” said the photographer. “Now go. I have a lot of work. I’m very busy.” I went back to the bus station. I sat on the bus for three hours. I walked ten miles back to my village. It was night time and I was very tired. Martha and my friends were waiting for me. “Where is the money?” Martha asked. “I have no money. I cannot change the money order. First I must an Identity Card.” And I told Martha everything. “Tomorrow I am going to Darpur again,” I said. Then I did not talk again. I was very tired and it was late at night. I lay on my bed and I slept. Chapter 4 Photographs I woke up late the next morning. The sun was already high. I did not walk to the main road and catch a bus. All the buses go to Darpur early in the morning. So I stayed at home on Wednesday. I was still very very tired. I rested and talked to the villagers about the money order. I told them about the Identity Card and the photographer. The school teacher said, “Yes, the official is correct. In a Post Office, you always show your Identity Card.” The school teacher filled in my application from for an Identity Card. Application from for Identity Card Name: Adam Jamei Address: Village of Minta Age: 72 years Place of birth: Village of Minta Occupation: Farmer Colour of eyes: Brown On Thursday I travelled to Darpur again. I walked to the main road and I caught a bus. In Darpur , I walked to the house of the photographer. I knocked on the door of the house. No one came to the door. I knocked again loudly with my stick. A woman opened the door. “Who are you? What do you want?” she asked. “Can I have my photographs, please?” I said. “Your photographs? I have no photographs,” the woman replied. “I came here on Tuesday. Where is the photographs?” I asked. “He’s out. He’s not here.” And the woman closed the door. I shouted at her, “I’m waiting here for him.” After a long time the photographer came back. He looked tired and he smelt of beer. “Give me my photographs, “ I said. “I have waited a long time for you.” The photographer looked at me and said, “I don’t know you, old man. What photographr are you talking about?” “My three photographs for my Identity Card. I paid you two pounds for them on Tuesday. Give me my photographs immediately or my money.” “Your photographs? Your money? What are you talking about?” the photographer said. “Show me the paper. Show me the receipt for your.” “My receipt? I asked. “Yes. Where is your receipt?” the photographer asked. “You didn’t give me a receipt,” I shouted. “Give me my photographer or my money immediately.” And I hit the photographer hard with my stick. I am old , But still strong. The photographer fell on the ground. He shouted, “Help! Help! This old man is killing me.” And I hit him hard again. Lots of people ran out of their houses. I hit the photographer again and two men held me. I could not get away from the two men. The photographer was very angry and I was very angry. Lots of people were shouting. Then a policeman came. The photographer shouted to the policeman, “This old man hit me three times with his stick. He’s a thief and a murderer. He wants my money.” The policeman held my arm and said “Come with me to the police station.” I did not say anything. We walked to the police station. At the police station, the policemen asked me “Did you hit that man three times?” “Yes,” I said, “he didn’t give me my photographs.” “Show me your Identity Card,” said the policeman. “ I am Adam of Minta village, “ I replied, “ and I haven’t got an Identity Card.” “Old man,” said the policeman. “Go back to your village. Don’t come here and fight. Keep our of Darpur.” And he pushed me into the street. I went back to my village. I was tired and angry. Chapter 5 Adam Changes his Money Order Next day I told my story to all the villagers. The villagers were angry. Martha was very unhappy. She said,” Saul is working very hard. He is sending money and we can’t have the money. What are we going to do?” I did not know. Then in the evening the school teacher came to my house again. “Adam. Perhaps I can help you, “ the school teacher said. “Here is a letter to Mr Sheth.” “Mr?” I said, “Who is he?” “He’s an important man in Darpur and he’s a friend of my wife’s cousin,” replied the school teacher. “This letter is to Mr Sheth. The letter is about your money order. Perhaps he can help you.” I took the letter and thanked the school teacher. So I travelled to Darpur again on Saturday, for the third time. After a long time, I found Mr Sheth’s house. The door was opened by a tall man. “Can I see Mr Sheth?” I asked. “And who are you ?” the tall man asked. I have a letter for Mr Sheth ,” I replied. “I see. Can I have the letter, please?” And the tall man held out his hand. “The letter is here,” I said. And I took the letter out of my pocket. “But I must see Mr Sheth.” “Many people want to see Mr Sheth ,” the tall man told me. “He is a very busy man and a very important man. Mr Sheth is not here at the moment. But give me your letter, and Mr Sheth will read it later.” I gave the tall man the letter. Then I waited. Later, a large black car came and a men went into the house. A long time later, the tall man opened the door again. “Come in now, please, and follow me,” he said. I followed the tall man. We went into a large room with fine carpets and big chairs. Another man was in the room. He was drinking. “This is Mr Sheth,” said the tall man. “I am Adam of Minta village,” I replied. “Yes, I know,” said Mr Sheth. “Thank you for the letter. I hope I can help you. I like to help people. Please, sit down.” Mr Sheth smiled. His clothes were new and smart. “Thank you, “ I said. “Can I see the money order, please?” Mr Sheth asked. I took the money order out of my pocket. By now, the money order was dirty and looked very old. I gave it to Mr Sheth. “This money order is for one hundred pounds,” I said.” My son sent it from a foreign country.” Mr Sheth unfolded the money order and looked at it. “You can’t change this money order,” he said. “This money order is not worth one hundred pounds. This money is worth nothing “Worth nothing! Worthless?“ I asked. Then Mr Sheth looked at the money order again. “Yes, worthless. Your son does not understand about money orders. This money order is not correct for our country,” Mr Sheth said. Then he looked at the money order again and said, “And this money order is also old. It is out-of-date.”. I said nothing. Mr Sheth gave me the money order back. Then Mr Sheth smiled and said, I am very sorry. You are an old man. You came a long way from your village. What can I give you to eat and drink?” I was not hungry. But Mr Sheth went out of the room. Then he brought me some coffee and some cakes. I drank my coffee. “Old man,” said Mr Sheth, “ I like to help people. I am a rich man. Give me your money order.” I gave my money order to Mr Sheth. “Yes, this money order is worthless,” he said again. “But I am going to help you. I am going to change this money order for you. I am going to give you some money.” Mr Sheth went out of the room. I felt very happy again. After a few minutes, the tall man came into the room. He gave me an envelope. “This is from Mr Sheth. You can go now,” the tall man said. I went out of the house. I walked along the road to the bus station. I opened the envelope and I took out my money. I counted the money. It was ten pounds. I thought about my only son, Saul. My son, Saul, had sent me a money order for one hundred pounds. Mr Sheth had given me ten pounds. I felt old and I felt poor again. Learn English Through Story Titanic By Tim Vicary Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Contents Introduction Chapter One: Under the sea Chapter Two: The biggest ship in the world Chapter Three: A city on the sea Chapter Four: Iceberg! Chapter Five: CQD- emergency! Chapter Six: Nobody is listening Chapter Seven: Into the lifeboats Chapter Eight: In the cold, dark sea Chapter Nine: The Carpathia and the Californian Chapter Ten: Life after the Titanic Chapter Eleven: Finding the Titanic Introduction In April 1912 the Titanic arrived in Southampton in the south of England. Everyone was excited about the new ship. It was the biggest ship in the world, the most beautiful, perhaps the fastest. And it was much safer than older ships, because it had sixteen compartments with emergency doors. The new ship had radio too. Passengers could send messages from the ship to their friends at home! Captain Smith and his officers and sailors were ready. Then the passengers came — millionaires, young people, families of six, people from more than forty different countries. Many of them wanted to begin a new life in America. So the Titanic went to Cherbourg in France, then Queenstown in Ireland, and then left for New York. There were 2,224 people on the ship, but there were lifeboats for only half of them. But that did not matter. The Titanic was unsinkable . . . Chapter One: Under the sea It was 1 September 1985. Under a ship in the North Atlantic, a camera moved through the dark water. Slowly, the camera went down — 1,000 metres, 2,000 metres, 3,000 metres under the sea. On the ship, some sailors waited and watched. Nobody spoke. Then, suddenly, they saw something. ‘There it is!” “Where?” ‘There — look, I can see it!” “Yes, you're right! It’s the Titanic? With the camera, the sailors could see a ship 3,810 metres under the water. It was a very big, old ship, and it was in two halves. They could see the front half of the ship with their camera, but the back half of the ship was 800 metres away. The Titanic, 1985 The sailors were all very happy. They took lots of photographs. The next year they came back with more cameras. The cameras went down under the sea and looked at the ship more carefully. They went all round the ship, and took hundreds of photos. Some of the cameras went into the ship too, through the windows. Later there was a film about the ship. People all over the world watched the film, and saw the photographs in newspapers. But who built the Titanic? What happened to it? Why did it break in two halves, and sink to the bottom of the sea? And what about the people on this ship? What were they like, and what happened to them? This is the story of the Titanic. Building the Titanic in Belfast Chapter Two: The biggest ship in the world More than 15,000 people built the Titanic in Belfast, Northern Ireland. They began building it in 1909, and finished it in 1912. The Titanic was the biggest ship in the world — 46,328 tons, 265 metres long, and 28 metres across. It had three big engines, and it could go at 23 knots (46 kilometres per hour) so it was one of the fastest ships in the world, too. The Titanic was very safe. It had sixteen compartments and fifteen emergency doors. When the captain closed the emergency doors, water could not move from one compartment to the next one. ‘The new Titanic is much safer than older ships,’ a newspaper said. A first- class lounge The Titanic was a very beautiful ship. The rooms for the first- class passengers, like Mr and Mrs John Jacob Astor IV, were expensive hotel. John Jacob Astor was one of the richest men in the world. He was fortyseven years old, but his second wife, Madeleine, was only eighteen. On the ship, Mr and Mrs Astor had two big bedrooms, a sitting room, and three more rooms. Mr Astor and his young wife could eat in the beautiful restaurant, and talk to rich, famous people, like Benjamin Guggenheim, an American businessman, Colonel Archibald Gracie, a soldier and writer, and Mr Isidor Straus, a businessman from New York, with his wife Ida. The captain of the Titanic, Edward Smith, came to eat with them too. There were many more rooms for the first- class passengers; there they could walk, read, smoke, and listen to music. Mr and Mrs Astor The first-class gymnasium Third-class passengers waiting for the Titanic The rooms for the second-class passengers were beautiful too. They were better than the first-class rooms on most ships. But most of the passengers had third-class tickets. These people were not rich; they were working people from England, Ireland, and many more countries. Carla Jensen was a nineteen-year-old girl from Denmark, and Anna Turja was eighteen and from Finland. These two young women wanted to begin a new life in America. Third-class passengers had small. rooms called cabins on E deck, a long way under the first-class and second- class passengers. There were four beds in every cabin. Sometimes the first-class passengers walked their dogs on E deck, because it had the longest corridors on the ship. But they did not talk to the third-class passengers. They had nothing to say to them. Chapter Three: A city on the sea On 10 April 1912, the Titanic left Southampton in the south of England. The ship went to Cherbourg in France, and then to Queenstown, near the city of Cork in Ireland. A lot of third-class passengers got on here. Then the Titanic went west towards New York. On Sunday 14 April Colonel Gracie got up early. He had breakfast, finished reading a book, and talked to his friends Mr and Mrs Straus. On the boat deck, Mrs Astor talked to Thomas Andrews, the designer of the Titanic. ‘I know all about this ship,’ he said. ‘Do you have any questions, Mrs Astor?’ ‘Yes,’ she said. ‘How many people are there on this ship?’ The boat deck Thomas Andrews Thomas Andrews took a book out of his pocket. ‘Let me see...there are 325 first-class passengers, like us; 277 second-class passengers; 706 third class passengers; 908 officers and sailors — and 8 musicians.’ ‘My goodness! We’re like a small city, aren’t we?’ Mrs Astor put her hand on a small boat on the side of the ship. ‘How many of these lifeboats are there?’ “Twenty.” ‘Twenty?’ Mrs Astor said. ‘But . . . can all those people get into twenty lifeboats?’ ‘No, of course not,’ Thomas Andrews said quietly. ‘But don’t be afraid, Mrs Astor. We don’t really need the lifeboats, because the Titanic can never sink. It is the safest ship in the world.’ The President of the White Star Line, J. Bruce Ismay, was excited about his new ship. He talked to Captain Smith. ‘How fast can the Titanic go?’ Bruce Ismay asked. ‘About 23 knots,’ Captain Smith answered. ‘But we’re going about 18 knots now. We don't want to arrive in New York a day early, do we?' 'Why not?' Bruce Ismay laughed. 'Come on, Captain, let's get there early. The Titanic is going to be famous!' Down on E deck, the third-class passengers talked about America, in many languages. Carla Jensen was Danish, but there were two English girls and a Swedish girl in her cabin. Carla's brother Svend and her father's brother Niels were on the Titanic too. In Anna Turja's cabin there were two young Finnish women and some children. Millvina Dean was the youngest passenger on the Titanic. She was a baby, only nine weeks old. Sidney Goodwin was two years old. He had a big family mother and father, two sisters and three brothers were all in the same cabin. J. Bruce Ismay Many passengers sent radio messages. In 1912, radio was very new. The two radio operators, Jack Phillips and Harold Bride, had a lot of work. In three days they sent 250 messages, and more messages from New York, came in from Southampton, and from ships. A lot of the radio messages from ships talked about ice. 'Be careful, there are a lot of icebergs in the North Atlantic,' the messages Jack Phillips said. But Captain Smith was not very worried. He only showed one of these messages to his officers. The Titanic’s radio room The Titanic did not go slower because of the ice. It went on across the Atlantic, at more than 20 knots. The passengers walked round the ship; they laughed and talked and ate in the restaurants. Everyone was happy and excited. The lights were on, and the music played. Mrs Astor was right. The Titanic was like a small city, far away on a big, cold sea. Jack Phillips Chapter Four: Iceberg! On the night of 14 April, the weather was good and there were lots of stars in the night sky. The sea was quiet, but it was very cold. High up in the ship, two sailors - Frederick Fleet and Reginald Lee - looked out at the black sea and sky. The two men were very cold. At 11.40 p.m. Fleet saw something in front of the ship. It was very big and white, and it was not far away. 'Iceberg! Iceberg!' he said on the telephone. 'There's an iceberg in front of the ship!' An Iceberg 'Thank you,' First Officer Murdoch answered. 'Turn left, quickly,' he told Robert Hitchens, the sailor next to him. But big ships turn much more slowly than smaller ones. And the Titanic was the biggest ship in the world. The Titanic hits the iceberg: a passenger’s drawing For 37 long seconds, nothing happened. The Titanic went towards the iceberg - a million tons of ice - at 40 kilometres per hour. Then, very slowly, the ship began to turn left. Fleet and Lee watched, their mouths open. The iceberg came nearer and nearer. They heard the noise when it hit the right side of the ship. They could see ice down on the deck. Then the iceberg went behind the ship, away into the black night. First Officer Murdoch's face was white. 'Stop the engines, quickly,' he said. The engines stopped, and the Titanic moved slower and slower. Then it stopped. Many passengers were asleep, and did not hear anything. But Colonel Gracie did. He looked at his watch; it was 11.45 p.m. He opened his cabin door and looked out. It was very quiet. ‘Why can’t I hear the engines?’ he thought. He put on a warm coat and went out onto the deck. Some passengers saw the ice on the deck and laughed. 'Let's put it in our drinks!' they said. They played with the ice for a few minutes and then went in, out of the cold. But down in the third-class cabins at the front of the ship, the iceberg made much more noise when it hit the ship. Water came into Daniel Buckley's cabin. He got up and opened his door. There were a lot of people in the corridor. 'What's happening?' they asked. 'What's wrong?' The four girls in Carla Jensen's cabin woke up, but then they went back to sleep. Carla was in bed in her nightdress when Niels Jensen opened the door at 12.30 a.m. 'Come on, Carla, get up,' he said. 'Something's happening. We must go up on deck.' So Carla put a coat over her nightdress, and went upstairs with Niels. She never saw the girls in her cabin again. A man opened Anna Turja's cabin door too. 'Put on your life jackets, girls, quickly!' he said. 'We're all going into the sea!' Chapter Five: CQD- emergency! Captain Smith heard the noise too. He got out of bed quickly. ‘What’s wrong?’ he asked First Officer Murdoch. ‘What was that noise?’ ‘An iceberg, sir,’ Murdoch answered. ‘I’m very sorry, but we hit an iceberg. I’m stopping the engines.’ Slowly, the Titanic stopped. The big, beautiful ship waited on the quiet black sea, under a thousand stars. ‘Close the emergency doors, quickly!’ said Captain Smith. ‘They are closed, sir.’ ‘That’s good. Well done.’ White Star Line officers, with Captain Smith (front centre right) and First Officer Murdoch (front right) When the fifteen emergency doors were closed, water could not move along the ship, from one compartment into the next one. But how many holes were there in the ship? Was there just one hole in one compartments? Captain Smith wanted to know the answer – quickly. Inside the Titanic Captain Smith, First Officer Murdoch, and Thomas Andrews, the designer of the Titanic, went down into the ship. They found a lot of holes. There was water in compartments 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. 'How bad is this?' Captain Smith asked. Thomas Andrews' face was white; he looked very unhappy. 'Very bad, I'm afraid,' he answered. 'This ship is going to sink.' 'What do you mean?' Captain Smith said. 'The Titanic can't sink. You said that to Mrs Astor yesterday! I heard you!' 'Yes, I know,' Andrews said. 'The Titanic is safe with water in three compartments. In fact, it is nearly safe with water in four compartments. But this - this is different. The water is coming into five compartments. Five. The front of the ship is going to get heavier and heavier - I'm sorry, but we can't stop it. The Titanic is going to sink.' 'How long have we got?' Captain Smith asked. 'I don't know. Two hours, perhaps. That's all.' 'Right. Give the passengers their life jackets, and get the lifeboats ready,' Smith said to Murdoch. Then he walked into the radio room to speak to the Titanic's radio operator, Jack Phillips. 'This is an emergency,' Captain Smith said. "The ship is sinking. Ask for help.' 'Yes, sir,' Jack Phillips answered. He sent the emergency message. 'CQD-MGY. (Help - Titanic). We are sinking. Please come to help us.' It was 12.15 a.m. Introduction Chapter Six: Nobody is listening The nearest ship to the Titanic was the Californian. It was about 16 kilometres away. The Californian knew about the ice, so it stopped at 10.30 that night. At 11.10 the third officer, Charles Groves, saw the lights of a big ship on the right. The Californian tried to send a message with a light to the ship, but there was no answer. At 11.40, the big ship stopped, but Charles Groves did not know why. He did not know that it was the Titanic. In 1912, radio was very new. Most ships had radio, but they didn't listen to it all the time. Cyril Evans, the radio operator on the Californian, went to bed at 11.30. So nobody on the Californian heard the emergency message from Jack Phillips at 12.15 a.m. Rockets from the Titanic People at Cape Race in America heard it, and one man heard it in New York. But for nearly ten minutes, no ships answered the message. Then, at 12.25, the radio operator on a ship called Carpathia wanted to talk to the Titanic. 'Titanic, I have a message for one of your passengers,' he said. 'Are you listening?' 'Come at once,' Jack Phillips answered. 'This is an emergency. We need help. We are sinking.' 'Shall I tell the captain?' the Carpathia's radio operator asked. 'Yes please, quickly!' Phillips answered. So at 12.35 the Carpathia began to go towards the Titanic. But the Carpathia was 92 kilometres away. From the Titanic, Captain Smith could see the Californian, but he did not know its name, and he could not talk to it on the radio. Jack Phillips tried to call it with the letters CQD and SOS, but nothing happened. Captain Smith tried to send a message with a light, but it did not answer. 'It's no good,' he said. 'Send up the rockets.' At 12.45 the first rocket went up into the night sky. It made white lights high over the Titanic. Every ten minutes after that, a new rocket went up. On the Californian, Second Officer Stone saw the rockets. 'That's interesting,' he said. He told his captain, Captain Lord. But Captain Lord was tired, so he went to bed. Stone watched the rockets for over an hour. But he did not understand them, so he did nothing. The radio room of the Carpathia Chapter Seven: Into the lifeboats The Titanic had twenty lifeboats. These boats could carry 1,178 people, but there were 2,224 people on the ship. So for nearly half of the people on the ship, there was no lifeboat. The first boat, Lifeboat 7, went into the sea at 12.55 a.m. with twentysix people. Lifeboat 1 could take sixty people, but there were only twelve people in it. Lifeboat 6 had only twenty-five women and one sailor. The ship's officers helped the passengers with their life jackets. 'Women and children must go in the lifeboats,' the officers said. 'Men must stay on the ship.' But some of the women did not want to go. It was warm on the ship, and cold in the dark sea. Young Mrs Astor was cold. She wore a life jacket over her beautiful blue dress, but she did not have a warm coat. She wanted to stay on the ship with her husband. 'I don't need to go in a lifeboat,' she said. 'The Titanic can't sink. Thomas Andrews told me that.' Mr Astor sat on a chair next to his wife. 'Let's stay on the ship,' he said. 'We're safer here than in that little boat.' For half an hour Mrs Astor sat with her husband. They watched women and children get into the lifeboats. They saw the sea come nearer and nearer. 'It's no good,' she said at last. 'Mr Andrews was wrong. This ship is sinking.' Second Officer Charles Lightoller helped Mrs Astor into 4. Mr Astor wanted to go with her. ‘Can’t I go with my wife?’ he said, ‘She needs me- she’s going to have a baby.? 'I'm sorry, sir,' Charles Lightoller said. 'These boats are for women and children. Men must stay here.' Mr Astor watched his wife go down into the sea in the lifeboat. 'Don't be afraid,' he said. 'I'm going to be OK. We can meet in New York.' 'Goodbye, my love,' she said. She never saw him again. Isidor Straus was sixty-seven years old, and his wife was sixty-three. 'I'm not going without my husband,' Mrs Straus said. 'Where he goes, I go.' 'That's OK,' said Charles Lightoller. 'He's an old man, so he can go with the women.' 'No,' said Mr Straus. 'I'm a man. I'm staying here, with the men.' So Mrs Straus stayed with her husband on the Titanic. The lifeboats were on the boat deck, near the first-class and secondclass passengers. Anna Turja ran upstairs from E deck towards the boat deck. 'Stop!' a sailor said. 'You can't go up there!' Anna did not stop, but the sailor closed the door behind her. There were hundreds of angry passengers on E deck, behind the closed doors. 'Let us out!' they said. 'We're all going to die!' Then Daniel Buckley and some more men broke the door, and ran up the stairs. A lot of men were afraid, and angry. 'We must get on a boat!' they said. But the officers on the boat deck had guns. 'Stand back!' they said. 'Women and children only!' Mr and Mrs Straus in Titanic But Daniel Buckley got into a boat and put on a woman's hat. When the officers looked into that boat, they saw only women there. Some third-class women passengers, like Anna Turja and Carla Jensen, got into the boats too. Carla was cold. She had no shoes - just a nightdress, a life jacket, and a coat. Eighteen of the Titanic's twenty lifeboats went into the sea. Some had only ten or twenty people in them, but Lifeboat 14 had Fifth Officer Lowe with fifty-eight women and children. After that there were only two lifeboats, Lifeboats A and B, on the ship. ‘Women and children only!’ Chapter Eight: In the cold, dark sea Chapter Eleven: Finding the Titanic The eight musicians did not get into the lifeboats. They stayed on the Titanic and played music - happy music, for worried people. Benjamin Guggenheim, the rich businessman, and his friend watched the women get into the lifeboats. They stood quietly and listened to the music. Then they took off their life jackets and put on their best coats. 'Now we are ready to die,' they said. 'Help the passengers,' Captain Smith said to the sailors. "The ship is going down. You can do no more.' Thomas Andrews, the designer of the Titanic, said nothing. What could he say? Second Officer Lightoller and Colonel Gracie wanted to move Lifeboats A and B, but it was not easy. Water came back along the ship, faster and faster. Lifeboat A went into the sea. There was nobody in it at first, but then some men got in. Lifeboat B went into the sea the wrong way up. Suddenly the ship moved, and Colonel Gracie and Charles Lightoller fell into the ice cold sea. They went a long way under the water. 'I'm going to die,' Colonel Gracie thought. Then at last they came up, and swam to Lifeboat B. But Lifeboat B was the wrong way up. They could not get into it, so they got onto it. Radio Operator Jack Phillips was on top Lifeboat B, with Colonel Gracie, Charles Lightoller, and twenty-six more men. Radio Operator Harold Bride was under Lifeboat B at first. Then he swam out and got on top. Musicians of the Titanic 'That's good, boys,' said an old man in the water near Lifeboat B. 'You're going to be OK.' But he did not get onto the boat, and after some time, he died. 'Who was that?' the men asked. 'Captain Smith, perhaps?' The front of the ship went down, and at the same time the back of the ship went up. For two minutes the back of the ship went slowly up, higher and higher. Some people ran to the back of the ship; a lot of people fell from the ship into the sea. Carla Jensen watched from Lifeboat 16. "The sea was very quiet and dark,' she said later. 'The lights were still on in the ship. Then, suddenly, there was a terrible noise. A thousand people cried from the ship - we heard them. Then the Titanic broke into two halves.' Slowly at first, then faster and faster, the Titanic went under the water. First the front of the ship went under, then the back. At 2.20 a.m. the Titanic was not there. The people in the boats could see the stars in the night sky, and the black sea, but no Titanic. The biggest ship in the world was under the sea. There were more than a thousand people in the water. Most of them had life jackets, so their heads stayed out of the water. But the sea water was very cold, and nobody could live in it for long. 'Please, come back and help us!' the people in the water cried to the people in the lifeboats. In Lifeboat 6 there was one sailor and twenty-five women. 'We must go back to help the people in the water,' some of the women said. 'Our husbands are there - they need help!' 'No,' said the sailor, Robert Hitchens. 'There are too many people in the water. They can't all get in this boat - it isn't safe!' So they did nothing. Lifeboat 1 had only twelve people in it, but they did not take one man or woman out of the sea. How the Titanic sank But in Lifeboat 14, Fifth Officer Lowe did want to help. 'Get into Lifeboats 10 and 12,' he told his fifty-eight passengers. Quickly, now. This boat is going back.' But it was not easy to move the passengers. Then, at 3.00 a.m. Fifth Officer Lowe went back with Lifeboat 14 to help the people in the water. But it was too late. Nearly everyone was dead. Harold Lowe took only four people alive out of the sea. They saw one man on a door in the water. He looked cold and white and dead. But after a few minutes he opened his eyes, and began to talk in Japanese! Later, he helped to row the boat, like a sailor. 'What a good man!' Harold Lowe said. Fifth Officer Harold Lowe All night, people sat in the lifeboats, and waited for morning. When the sun came up, they looked at the cold, quiet sea. They could see icebergs everywhere. And in the water, near the icebergs, they saw hundreds of cold, white bodies - the bodies of dead passengers and sailors. Chapter Nine: The Carpathia and the Californian The Carpathia heard the message from the Titanic at 12.25 a.m. It came very quickly - at 15 knots (31 kilometres per hour) - towards the Titanic. At 2.35 Captain Rostron, the captain of the Carpathia, saw a green light over the sea. At 2.45 his sailors saw an iceberg. Then more icebergs. 'We're going very fast, sir, it isn't safe,' a sailor said. 'Don't stop,' said Captain Rostron. 'We must get there quickly. The Titanic is sinking.' There were no more radio messages from the Titanic. At 4.00 a.m. the Carpathia stopped, and sent some rockets into the air. 'Here we are,' the captain said. 'But where is the Titanic?' The sun came up. There was no Titanic. They saw more than twenty icebergs, some big, some small. And one small lifeboat, 400 metres away. There was a sailor in it, some women, and a baby. 'Where is the Titanic?' Captain Rostron asked. 'It went down, sir,' answered the sailor. 'An hour and a half ago." On the Californian, Chief Officer Stewart saw the Carpathia. 'There's that ship,' he said to Captain Lord. 'It's firing rockets again.' 'It doesn't matter,' said Captain Lord. 'It's not important.' Taking a lifeboat onto the Carpathia But at 5.40 a.m. Evans, the radio operator on the Californian, got out of bed. 'Speak to that ship, Evans, please,' Stewart said. 'Why are they firing rockets?' Two minutes later, Evans answered, 'That ship is the Carpathia, sir. There are lifeboats in the sea and the Carpathia is helping them. The Titanic hit an iceberg last night.' 'We must help, too,' said Captain Lord. 'Quickly!' So the Californian went towards the Carpathia. But it was nearly 6.00 a.m. - more than five long hours after the Titanic needed their help. Slowly, more lifeboats came to the Carpathia. Lifeboat B began to sink, and the people on the boat climbed onto Lifeboat 12. At 8.30 a.m. Lifeboat 12 arrived at the Carpathia with seventy-five people in it. There was a lot of water in the boat, and all the passengers were tired and cold. It was the last of the lifeboats from the Titanic. Second Officer Lightoller helped people onto the ship, and then he got out of the lifeboat and onto the ship too. He was the last person from the Titanic to come onto the Carpathia. The sailors from the Carpathia helped the passengers onto their ship. They had warm coats and hot drinks for them. But the passengers wanted to know about their families and friends. 'Is my husband here?' they asked. 'Is my wife here? Where are my children?' Four days later the Carpathia arrived in New York with 711 people from the Titanic. But back in the cold North Atlantic, 1,513 people were dead. An important man, Senator Smith, began to ask questions. 'What went wrong?' he wanted to know. 'Why did the Titanic sink? Why did all these people die?' Captain Smith and First Officer Murdoch were dead, and the designer Thomas Andrews was dead too. But the President of the White Star Line, Bruce Ismay, was on the Carpathia, so Senator Smith talked to him. Titanic passengers on the Carpathia 'Did you know about the icebergs?' Senator Smith asked. 'Well, Captain Smith knew about them, yes,' Bruce Ismay answered. 'Then why didn't the Titanic go slower?' Senator Smith asked. 'Did you talk to Captain Smith about that?' 'Me? No, of course not,' Bruce Ismay answered. 'He was the captain, I was only a passenger.' 'A passenger, yes - but you were the President of the White Star Line too,' Senator Smith said angrily. 'The Titanic was your ship, and 1,500 people died because the Titanic hit an iceberg. Can you answer this question, then? Why did you only have twenty lifeboats?' Bruce Ismay looked unhappy. 'Because the Titanic could not sink! Thomas Andrews told me that. He was the designer - he knew about ships. And remember, it had sixteen compartments and fifteen emergency doors. "We don't need a lot of lifeboats - it's the safest ship in the world," Andrews said. And I listened to him.' 'I see,' Senator Smith said angrily. 'So you did nothing wrong. Captain Smith was wrong about the icebergs, and Thomas Andrews was wrong about the lifeboats. But you, the President of the White Star Line..." 'I was only a passenger,' Bruce Ismay said. The news arrives in London Chapter Ten: Life after the Titanic The American ship Mackay-Bennett found hundreds of dead bodies in the sea. One of the bodies was John Jacob Astor. He was buried in New York in May 1912. In August 1912, Mrs Astor had a baby son. She called him John Jacob Astor, the same name as his father. Mrs Astor died in 1953. The Mackay-Bennett also found Mr Straus, and he was buried in New York, too. But they did not find his wife. Many of the bodies on the Mackay-Bennett had no names. One of the bodies was a baby, two years old. Nobody knew his name then, so they called him 'the unknown child'. Today, we know that he was Sidney Goodwin. His mother and father, three brothers and two sisters all died in the sea too. Little Sidney, like many of the Titanic passengers, was buried in Halifax, Nova Scotia, in Canada. But Millvina Dean, the youngest passenger on the Titanic, did not die. She left the Titanic in Lifeboat 10 with her mother and brother. Later they returned to England on another White Star ship, the Adriatic. All the women passengers on the Adriatic wanted to hold her in their arms. In the end, one of the officers said, 'No passenger can hold Millvina for more than ten minutes.' Millvina Dean a few years later, with her mother and brother Colonel Archibald Gracie wrote a book about the Titanic, but he never really got well after his time in the sea. He died in December 1912, and his last words were, 'We must get them all in the boats.' It was not easy for Anna Turja in America. She did not know any people there, and she could not speak English. A hospital doctor in New York wrote her name on her arm, and put her on a train to her brother in Ohio. But Anna was a beautiful, friendly young woman. She met her husband in Ohio, and they had seven children. She died in 1982, aged eighty-nine. Carla Jensen went back to Denmark. She met her husband, and they had three children. She died on 14 March 1980, and she was buried in her old nightdress from the Titanic. Second Officer Charles Lightoller Daniel Buckley went to France in 1914 to be a soldier. He died in 1918. Jack Phillips died from cold in the lifeboat. His friend Harold Bride, the second radio operator, went home to Scotland. He met his wife there, and they had three children. He died in 1956, aged sixty-six. Fifth Officer Harold Lowe died in May 1944, in Wales. Second Officer Charles Lightoller had an exciting life. After the Titanic, he worked on a White Star ship called the Oceanic; but in 1914, the Oceanic sank too. Then he worked on a ship called the Falcon, but the Falcon also sank. In 1940, at the age of sixty-six, he went with his son Roger in his small boat called Sundowner to Dunkirk in France. Sundowner was not much bigger than one of the Titanic's lifeboats, but it carried 130 soldiers home across the sea to England. Charles Lightoller died in 1952, in London, aged seventy-eight. Bruce Ismay went home to England, and the White Star Line finished their new ship the Britannic. But Ismay's later life was not happy. He could never forget the Titanic. Chapter Eleven: Finding the Titanic There are many stories about the Titanic. A man called Walter Lord talked to hundreds of passengers and sailors and in 1956 he wrote about them in his book, A Night to Remember. In 1957 there was a film of the book called A Night to Remember. Anna Turja went to see the film, but she could not speak English. So her son watched the film with her and told her about it. But Anna did not really understand about films. "Those people with the film cameras,' she said to her son when they came out of the cinema. 'They made this film when the Titanic went down. So why didn't they help all the people in the water?' In 1985 Robert Ballard went to look for the Titanic, first on a French ship, and then on an American ship. He found the Titanic 3,810 metres under the sea, 531 kilometres south-east of Newfoundland. In 1986 and 1987 he went back with more cameras and made a film about the ship under the sea. In 1987 James Cameron saw this film and said: 'I must make a Hollywood film about this.' In 1995 he went to see the Titanic under the sea, and he got money to make his film. Cameron's film, Titanic, was very expensive; he needed 200 million dollars for it. That is 1 million dollars for every minute of the film. In the film, Kate Winslet, a rich girl, meets Leonardo DiCaprio, a poor boy. When the ship goes down the boy dies but the girl lives. Many years later, the girl is an old lady. She goes back to look at the ship under the sea, and tells her story. The route of the Titanic in 1912 Not everything in the film is true, but most of it is. By 1997 most of the passengers from the Titanic were dead. But one woman, Millvina Dean, was still alive. In 1912, she was the youngest passenger on the Titanic, but in 1997 she was an old lady. She went across the Atlantic again, on a big fast ship, the QE2. Millvina Dean looked out at the sea and the icebergs, and thought about the Titanic. 'I was here, eighty-five years ago,' she said. 'We were on the biggest, most beautiful ship in the world. But I was a little baby then, in my mother's arms. So I can't really remember anything of that night, on 14 April 1912.' In 2008 Millvina Dean was the only passenger alive from the Titanic. But people still talk and think and write about the Titanic. They remember it because it was big, and fast, and beautiful, of course. But they also remember the cold night in 1912 when the 'safest ship in the world' went to the bottom of the sea. -The EndHope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to Learn English Through Story The Monkey's Paw By W. W. Jacobs Retold by Diane Mowat Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Contents Chapter One Chapter Two Chapter Three Chapter Four Chapter Five Chapter Six Chapter Seven Chapter One It was cold and dark out in the road and the rain did not stop for a minute. But in the little living-room of number 12 Castle Road it was nice and warm. Old Mr White and his son, Herbert, played chess and Mrs White sat and watched them. The old woman was happy because her husband and her son were good friends and they liked to be together. ‘Herbert’s a good son,’ she thought. ‘We waited a long time for him and 1 was nearly forty when he was born, but we are a happy family.’ And old Mrs White smiled. It was true. Herbert was young and he laughed a lot, but his mother and his father laughed with him. They had not got much money, but they were a very happy little family. The two men did not talk because they played carefully. The room was quiet, but the noise of the rain was worse now and they could hear it on the windows. Suddenly old Mr White looked up. ‘Listen to the rain!’ he said. ‘Yes, it’s a bad night,’ Herbert answered, it’s not a good night to be out. But is your friend, Tom Morris, coming tonight?’ Old Mr White and his son played chess. ‘Yes, that’s right. He’s coming at about seven o’clock,’ the old man said. ‘But perhaps this rain . . .’ Mr White did not finish because just then the young man heard a noise. ‘Listen!’ Herbert said. ‘There’s someone at the door now.’ ‘I didn’t hear a noise,’ his father answered, but he got up from his chair and went to open the front door. Mrs White got up too and began to put things away. Mr White said, ‘Come in, come in, Tom. It’s wonderful to see you again. What a bad night! Give me your coat and then come into the living-room. It’s nice and warm in there.’ The front door was open, and in the living-room Mrs White and Herbert felt the cold. Then Mr White came back into the living-room with a big, red-faced man. This is Tom Morris,’ Mr White told his wife and son. ‘We were friends when we were young. We worked together before Tom went to India. Tom, this is my wife and this is our son, Herbert.’ ‘Pleased to meet you,’ Tom Morris said. ‘Pleased to meet you, Mr Morris,’ Mrs White answered. ‘Please come and sit down.’ ‘Yes, come on, Tom,’ Mr White said. ‘Over here. It’s nice and warm.’ ‘Thank you,’ the big man answered and he sat down. ‘Let’s have some whisky,’ old Mr White said. ‘You need something to warm you on a cold night.’ He got out a bottle of whisky and the two old friends began to drink and talk. The little family listened with interest to this visitor from far away and he told them many strange stories. Chapter Two After some time Tom Morris stopped talking and Mr White said to his wife and son, ‘Tom was a soldier in India for twenty-one years. India is a wonderful country.’ ‘Yes,’ Herbert said. ‘I’d like to go there.’ ‘Oh, Herbert!’ his mother cried. She was afraid because she did not want to lose her son. ‘I wanted to go to India too,’ her husband said, ‘but . . .’ ‘It’s better for you here!’ the soldier said quickly. ‘But you saw a lot of strange and wonderful things in India. I want to see them too one day,’ Mr White said. The soldier put down his whisky. ‘No!’ he cried. ‘Stay here!’ Old Mr White did not stop. ‘But your stories were interesting,’ he said to Tom Morris. ‘What did you begin to say about a monkey’s paw?’ ‘Let’s have some whisky,’ old Mr White said. ‘Nothing!’ Morris answered quickly. ‘Well . . . nothing important.’ ‘A monkey’s paw?’ Mrs White said. ‘Come on, Mr Morris! Tell us about it,’ Herbert said. Morris took his whisky in his hand, but suddenly he put it down again. Slowly he put his hand into the pocket of his coat and the White family watched him. ‘What is it? What is it?’ Mrs White cried. Morris said nothing. He took his hand out of his pocket. The White family watched carefully - and in the soldier’s hand they saw something little and dirty. Mrs White moved back, afraid, but her son, Herbert, took it and looked at it carefully. ‘Well, what is it?’ Mr White asked his friend. ‘Look at it,’ the soldier answered. ‘It’s a little paw . . . a monkey’s paw.’ ‘A monkey’s paw!’ Herbert said - and he laughed. ‘Why do you carry a monkey’s paw in your pocket, Mr Morris?’ he asked the old soldier. ‘Well, you see,’ Morris said, ‘this monkey’s paw is magic!’ Herbert laughed again, but the soldier said, ‘Don’t laugh, boy. Remember, you’re young. I’m old now and in India I saw many strange tilings.' He stopped talking for a minute and then he said, ‘This monkey’s paw can do strange and wonderful things. An old Indian gave the paw to one of my friends. My friend was a soldier too. This paw is magic because it can give three wishes to three people.’ Herbert looked carefully at the monkey’s paw. ‘Wonderful!’ Herbert said. ‘But these three wishes don’t bring happiness,’ the soldier said. ‘The old Indian wanted to teach us something - it’s never good to want to change things.’ ‘An old Indian gave the monkey’s paw to one of my friends.’ ‘Well, did your friend have three wishes?’ Herbert asked the old soldier. ‘Yes,’ Morris answered quietly. ‘And his third and last wish was to die!’ Mr and Mrs White listened to the story and they felt afraid, but Herbert asked, ‘And did he die?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ Morris said. ‘He had no family, so his things came to me when he died. The monkey’s paw was with his things, but he told me about it before he died,’ Tom Morris finished quietly. ‘What were his first two wishes, then?’ Herbert asked. ‘What did he ask for?’ ‘I don’t know. He didn’t want to tell me,’ the soldier answered. For a minute or two everybody was quiet, but then Herbert said, ‘And you, Mr Morris: did you have rhrec wishes?’ ‘Yes, I did,’ Morris answered. ‘I was young. I wanted many things - a fast car, money . . .’ Morris stopped for a minute and then he said with difficulty, ‘My wife and my young son died in an accident in the car. Without them I didn’t want the money, so, in the end, I wished to lose it. But it was too late. My wife and my child were dead.’ The room was very quiet. The White family looked at the unhappy face of the old soldier. Then Mr White said, ‘Why do you want the paw now? You don’t need it. You can give it to someone.’ ‘How can 1 give it to someone?’ the soldier said. ‘The monkey’s paw brings unhappiness with it.’ ‘Well, give it to me,’ Mr White said. ‘Perhaps this time it . . .’ ‘No!’ Tom Morris cried. ‘You’re my friend. 1 can’t give it to you.’ Then, after a minute, he said, ‘1 can’t give it to you, but, of course you can take it from me. But remember - this monkey’s paw brings unhappiness!’ Old Mr White did not listen and he did not think. Quickly, he put out his hand, and he took the paw. Tom Morris looked unhappy, but Mr White did not want to wait. ‘What do I do now?’ he asked his friend. ‘The monkey’s paw brings unhappiness with it.’ ‘Yes, come on, Father,' Herbert said. ‘Make a wish!’ And he laughed. The soldier said nothing and Mr White asked him again, ‘What do I do now?’ At first the old soldier did not answer, but in the end he said quietly, ‘OK. But remember! Be careful! Think before you make your wish.’ ‘What can I wish for? We need money, of course.’ ‘Yes, yes,’ Mr White said. ‘Take the paw in your right hand and then make your wish, but . . Tom Morris began. ‘Yes, we know,’ Herbert said. ‘Be careful!’ Just then old Mrs White stood up and she began to get the dinner. Her husband looked at her. Then he smiled and said to her, ‘Come on. Help me! What can I wish for? We need money, of course.’ Mrs White laughed, but she thought for a minute and then she said, ‘Well, I’m getting old now and sometimes it’s difficult to do everything. Perhaps I need four hands and not two. Yes, ask the paw to give me two more hands.’ ‘OK, then,’ her husband said, and he took the monkey’s paw in his right hand. Everybody watched him and for a minute he waited. Then he opened his mouth to make his wish. Suddenly Tom Morris stood up. ‘Don’t do it!’ he cried. The old soldier’s face was whire. Herbert and his mother laughed, but Mr White looked at Tom’s face. Old Mr White was afraid and he put the monkey’s paw into his pocket. After a minute or two they sat down at the table and began to have dinner. The soldier told the family many strange and wonderful stories about India. They forgot the monkey’s paw, and because the soldier’s stories were interesting, they asked him many questions about India. When Tom Morris stood up to leave, it was very late. ‘Thank you for a very nice evening,’ Morris said to the family. ‘And thank you for a very good dinner,’ he said to Mrs White. ‘It was a wonderful evening for us, Tom,’ old Mr White answered. ‘Your stories were very interesting. Our life isn’t very exciting and we don't have the money to visit India, so please come again soon. You can tell us some more stories about India.’ Then the old soldier put on his coat. He said goodbye to the White family, and went out into the rain. The soldier told the family many stories about India. Chapter Three It was nearly midnight. In their warm living-room, the two old people and their son sat and talked about the soldier’s stories. ‘India is a wonderful country,’ Mr White said. ‘What exciting stories! It was a good evening.’ Mrs White stood up to take some things into the kitchen, but she stopped and listened to Herbert and his father. ‘Yes,’ Herbert said. ‘Morris told some interesting stories, but, of course, some of them weren’t true.’ ‘Oh Herbert!’ Mrs White said. ‘Well, Mother, that story about the monkey’s paw wasn’t true. A dirty little monkey’s paw isn’t magic! But it was a good story.’ And Herbert smiled. ‘Well, I think you’re right, Herbert,’ his mother said. ‘I don’t know,’ Mr White said quietly. ‘Perhaps the story was true. Strange things can happen sometimes.’ Mrs White looked at her husband. ‘Did you give some money to Tom Morris for that paw?’ she asked. ‘We don’t have money to give away for nothing!’ Mrs White was angry now. ‘Well, yes,’ her husband answered. ‘I did, but not much, and at first he didn’t want to take it. He wanted the monkey’s paw.’ ‘Perhaps the story was true.’ ‘Well, he can’t have it,’ Herbert laughed. ‘It’s our paw now and we’re going to be rich and happy. Come on, Father. Make a wish!’ Old Mr White took the paw from his pocket. ‘OK, Herbert, but what am I going to ask for? I have everything - you, your mother. What do I need?’ ‘Money, of course,’ Herbert answered quickly. ‘We need money! You’re always thinking about money. That’s because we haven’t got very much of it. With money you can pay for this house. It can be your house! Go on, Father, wish for thirty thousand pounds!’ ‘I wish for £30,000 Herbert stopped talking and his old father thought for a minute. The room was quiet and they could hear the rain on the windows. Then Mr White took the monkey’s paw in his right hand. He was afraid, but he looked at his wife and she smiled at him. ‘Go on,’ she said. Slowly and carefully Mr White said, ‘I wish for thirty thousand pounds.’ Suddenly he gave a cry and Mrs White and Herbert ran to him. ‘What’s the matter, Father?’ Herbert asked. ‘It moved!’ Mr White cried. ‘The monkey’s paw - it moved!’ They looked at the paw. It was now on the floor and not in the old man’s hand. The family watched it, and they waited - but it did not move again. So the little family sat down again and they waited. Nothing happened. The noise of the rain on the windows was worse now and their little living-room did not feel nice and warm. Mrs White said, ‘It’s cold. Let’s go to bed.’ Mr White did not answer and in the end Herbert said, ‘Well, there’s no money, Father. Your friend’s story wasn’t true.’ But Mr White did not answer. He sat quietly and said nothing. After some time Mrs White said to her husband, ‘Are you OK?’ ‘Yes, yes,’ the old man answered,‘but for a minute or two I was afraid.’ ‘Well, we needed that money,’ Mrs White said, ‘but we aren’t going to get it. I’m tired. I’m going to bed.’ After Mrs White went to bed, the two men sat and smoked for some time. Then Herbert said, ‘Well, Father, I’m going to bed too. Perhaps the money is in a bag under your bed! Goodnight, Father.’ And Herbert laughed and went out of the room. Old Mr White sat in the cold living-room for a long time. The candle died and it was dark. Suddenly, the old man saw a face at the window. Quickly, he looked again, but there was nothing there. He felt afraid. Slowly he stood up and left the cold, dark room. Suddenly, he saw a face at the window. Chapter Four The next morning the winter sun came through the window and the house felt nice and warm again. Mr White felt better and he smiled at his wife and son. The family sat down to have breakfast and they began to talk about the day. The monkey’s paw was on a little table near the window, but nobody looked at it and nobody thought about it. ‘I’m going to work,’ Herbert said. I’m going to the shops this morning,’ Mrs White said. ‘I want to get something nice for dinner. Are you going to come with me?’ she asked her husband. ‘No, I’m going to have a quiet morning. I’m going to read,’ her husband answered. ‘Well, I’m not going to go out this evening,’ Herbert said, ‘so we can go to bed early tonight. We were very late last night.’ ‘And we aren’t going to have stories about monkeys’ paws!’ Mrs White said. She was angry. ‘Why did we listen to your friend?’ she asked her husband. ‘A monkey’s paw can’t give you things!’ She stopped but the two men did not answer her. Thirty thousand pounds!’ she said quietly. 'We needed that money.’ Just then Herbert looked at the clock and stood up. 'I’m going to work,’ he said. ‘Perhaps the postman has got the money for you in a letter. Remember, I want some of it too!’ Herbert laughed and his mother laughed too. ‘Don’t laugh, son,’ Mr White said. Tom Morris is an old friend and he thinks the story is true. Perhaps it is.’ ‘Well, leave some of the money for me,’ Herbert laughed again. His mother laughed too and she went to the door with him. ‘Goodbye, Mother,’ Herbert said happily. ‘Get something nice for dinner this evening at the shops. I’m always hungry after a day at work.’ ‘I know you are!’ Mrs White answered. Herbert left the house and walked quickly down the road. His mother stood at the door for some time and watched him. The winter sun was warm, but suddenly she felt very cold. Mrs White stood at the door for some time. Chapter Five Slowly, old Mrs White went back into the house. Her husband looked up and saw something strange in her face. 'What’s the matter?’ he asked. ‘Nothing,’ his wife answered, and she sat down to finish her breakfast. She began to think about Tom Morris again and suddenly she said to her husband, ‘Your friend drank a lot of whisky last night! A monkey’s paw! What a story!’ Mr White did not answer her because just then the postman arrived. He brought two letters for them — but there was no money in them. After breakfast the two old people forgot about the money and the monkey’s paw. Later in the day, at about one o’clock, Mr and Mrs White sat down to eat and then they began to talk about money again. They did not have very much money, so they often needed to talk about it. ‘That thirty thousand pounds,’ Mrs White said, ‘we need it!’ ‘But it didn’t come this morning,’ her husband answered. ‘Let’s forget it!’ Then he said, ‘But that thing moved. The monkey’s paw moved in my hand! Tom’s story was true!’ ‘You drank a lot of whisky last night. Perhaps the paw didn’t move,’ Mrs White answered. ‘It moved!’ Mr White cried angrily. At first his wife did not answer, but then she said, ‘Well, Herbert laughed about it . . .’ Suddenly she stopped talking. She stood up and went over to the window. ‘What’s the matter?’ her husband asked. ‘There’s a man in front of our house,’ Mrs White answered. ‘He’s a stranger — very tall-and well dressed. ‘There’s a tall, well-dressed stranger in front of our house.’ He’s looking at our house . . . Oh, no . . . it’s OK . . . He’s going away... ‘Come and sit down! Finish eating!’ Mr White said. The old woman did not listen to her husband. ‘He isn’t going away,’ she went on. ‘He’s coming back. I don’t know him — he’s a stranger. Yes, he’s very well dressed . . .’ Suddenly Mrs White stopped. She was very excited. ‘He’s coming to the door . . . Perhaps he’s bringing the money!’ ‘Can I come in and talk to you?’ And she ran out of the room to open the front door. The tall, well-dressed stranger stood there. For a minute he said nothing, but then he began, ‘Good afternoon. I’m looking for Mr and Mrs White.’ ‘Well, I’m Mrs White,’ the old woman answered. ‘What can I do for you?’ At first the stranger did not answer, but then he said, ‘Mrs White, I’m from Maw and Meggins. Can I come in and talk to you?’ Maw and Meggins had a big factory and Herbert White worked there on the machinery. ‘Yes, of course,’ Mrs White answered. ‘Please come in.’ The well-dressed stranger came into the little living-room and Mr White stood up. ‘Are you Mr White?’ the stranger began. Then he went on, ‘I’m from Maw and Meggins.’ Mrs White looked at the stranger and she thought, ‘Perhaps he has the money . . . but why Maw and Meggins? And his face is very unhappy . . . Why?’ Suddenly the old woman was afraid. ‘Please sit down,’ Mr White began, but now his wife could not wait. ‘What’s the matter?’ she cried. ‘Is Herbert . . .’ She could not finish the question. The stranger did not look at their faces — and Mr White began to be afraid too. ‘Please, tell us!’ he said. ‘I’m very sorry,’ the man from Maw and Meggins began. He stopped for a minute and then he began again. ‘I’m very sorry, but this morning there was an accident at the factory . . .’ ‘What’s the matter? Is Herbert OK?’ Mrs White cried again. ‘Well . . .’ the man began slowly. ‘Is he in hospital?’ the old woman asked, very afraid now. ‘Yes, but . . .’ the stranger looked at Mrs White’s face and stopped. ‘Is he dead? Is Herbert dead?’ Mr White asked quietly. ‘Dead!’ Mrs White cried. ‘Oh no . . . please . . . not dead! Not Herbert! Not our son!’ Suddenly the old woman stopped because she saw the stranger’s face. Then the two old people knew. Their son was dead! Old Mrs White began to cry quietly and Mr White put his arm round her. Some time later the man from Maw and Meggins said, ‘It was the machinery — an accident. Herbert called, “Help!”. The men heard him — and ran to him quickly, but they could do nothing. The next minute he was in the machinery. I’m very, very sorry,’ he finished. For a minute or two the room was quiet. At last Mrs White said, ‘Our son! Dead! We’re never going to see him again. What are we going to do without him?’ ‘This morning there was an accident at the factory…’ Her husband said, ‘He was our son. We loved him.’ Then Mrs White asked the stranger, ‘Can we see him? Can we see our son? Please take me to him. I want to see my son.' ‘Maw and Meggins want to help you at this unhappy time.’ But the stranger answered quickly, ‘No!’ he said. ‘It’s better not to see him. They couldn’t stop the machinery quickly. He was in there for a long time. And at first they couldn’t get him out. He was ..The man stopped. Then he said, ‘Don’t go to see him!’ The stranger went over to the window because he did not want to see the faces of the two old people. He said nothing, but he stood there for some time and he waited. Then he went back to the old people and began to calk again. ‘There’s one more thing,’ he said. ‘Your son worked for Maw and Meggins for six years and he was a good worker. Now Maw and Meggins want to help you at this unhappy time.’ Again the stranger stopped. After a minute he began again. ‘Maw and Meggins want to give you some money.’ Then he put something into Mr White’s hand. Old Mr White did not look at the money in his hand. Slowly he stood up and looked at the stranger, afraid. ‘Howr much?’ Mr White asked, very quietly. He did not want to hear the answer. ‘Thirty thousand pounds,’ the stranger said. Chapter Six Three days later, in the big, new cemetery two miles from their house, the two old people said goodbye to their dead son. Then they went back to their dark, old house. They did not want to live without Herbert, but they waited for something good to happen, something to help them. The days went by very slowly. Sometimes they did not talk because there was nothing to say without Herbert. And so the days felt very long. Then, one night, about a week later, Mrs White got out of bed because she could not sleep. She sat by the window and she watched and waited for her son. He did not come and she began to cry quietly. The two old people said goodbye to their dead son. In the dark her husband heard her and he called, ‘Come back to bed. It’s cold out there.’ ‘It’s colder for my son,’ his wife answered. ‘He’s out there in the cold cemetery.’ Mrs White did not go back to bed, but Mr White was old and tired and the bed was warm. So, in the end, he went to sleep again. Suddenly he heard a cry from his wife. ‘The paw!’ she cried. ‘The monkey’s paw!’ She came back to the bed and stood there. ‘What is it? What’s the matter?’ Mr White cried. He sat up in bed. ‘What’s the matter?’ he thought. 'Why is she excited? What’s she talking about?’ He looked at his wife. Her face was very white in the dark. ‘1 want it,’ she said quietly, 'and you’ve got it! Give it to me! Please!’ ‘What?’ Mr White asked. ‘The monkey’s paw,’ Mrs White said. ‘Where is it?’ ‘It’s downstairs,’ Mr White answered. ‘Why?’ Mrs White began to laugh and cry. ‘We can have two more wishes!’ she cried. ‘We had one — but there are two more!’ ‘Oh, no! Not again! Think, woman!’ Mr White cried. But Mrs White did not listen. ‘The monkey's paw! We can have two more wishes!’ ‘Quickly,’ she said. ‘Go and get the paw. We’re going to wish for our boy to come back to us!’ ‘No!’ Mr White cried. ‘You’re mad!’ ‘Get it! Get it quickly!’ Mrs White cried again. Mr White said again, ‘Think, woman! Think! Our boy was in the machinery for a long time. They didn’t want to show him to us! Think! Do you want to see his body?’ ‘Yes! He’s my son. I’m not afraid of him!’ she answered. ‘You don’t understand,’ Mr White said sadly, but he went downstairs to look for the monkey’s paw. In the living-room it was dark and Mr White did not have a candle. Slowly, he went across the room and he put out his hand for the monkey’s paw. He touched it, and quickly took his hand away again. ‘I wish for my son, Herbert, to come back to us.’ ‘No!’ he thought. ‘I can’t! I don’t want to see Herbert! His face — after he was in the machinery . . . no!’ Then he thought about his wife — and he put out his hand and took the paw. In the bedroom his wife waited. She saw the paw in Mr White’s hand and cried, ‘Quick! Make the wish!’ ‘I can’t,’ Mr White answered. ‘Remember - he died in the machinery!’ ‘Make the wish! I’m not afraid of my own son!’ Mrs White cried again. Mr White looked sadly at his wife, but he took the paw in his right hand and said slowly, i wish for my son, Herbert, to come back to us.’ Then he sat down in the nearest chair. But Mrs White went over to the window and looked out into the road. She stayed there for a long time and she did not move. Nothing happened. The monkey’s paw could not do it! ‘Thank God!’ Mr White said, and he went back to bed. Soon Mrs White went to bed too. Chapter Seven But they did not sleep. They waited and they listened. In the end Mr White got up to get a candle because the dark made him more afraid. He began to go downstairs, but suddenly he heard a noise at the front door. He stopped, and he listened. He could not move. Then the noise came again. This time he ran. He ran upstairs, back into the bedroom and he closed the door behind him. But again the noise came. ‘What’s that?’ Mrs White cried, and she sat up in bed. ‘Nothing! Go to sleep again!’ her husband answered. But Mrs White listened - and the noise came again. ‘The paw!’ Mr White thought. ’Where’s the monkey’s paw?’ ‘It’s Herbert! It’s Herbert!’ she cried. ‘I’m going to open the door for him.’ And she got out of bed and ran to the door of the bedroom. Mr White got there first and stopped her. ‘No!’ he cried. ‘Think!’ ‘But it’s my boy! It’s Herbert,’ she answered. ‘No! Don’t go! Don’t . . .’ her husband cried again. But Mrs White did not listen to him. She opened the bedroom door and ran from the room. ‘I’m coming, Herbert. I’m coming!’ she called. Mr White ran after her. ‘Stop!’ he cried. ‘Remember, Herbert died in the machinery! You don’t want to see him!’ For a minute Mrs White stopped and looked at her husband, but then the noise came again and she began to run downstairs. ‘Help me! Help me!’ she called to her husband. But Mr White did not move. The paw!’ he thought. ‘Where’s the monkey’s paw?’ He ran back into the bedroom. ‘Quick!’ he thought. ‘Where is it?’ At first he could not find it in the dark. Ah! There it was! He had it! Just at that minute he heard his wife downstairs. ‘Wait! Wait, Herbert! I’m coming!’ she cried. She began to open the front door. At the same time Mr White took the monkey’s paw in his right hand and he made his third wish. The road was dark and quiet. Mrs White gave a long unhappy cry and her husband ran down to her. She stood by the open door. Very afraid, old Mr White looked out into the dark. The road was dark and quiet — and there was nobody there. -The End- Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! Prince William By John Escott Learn English Through Story Prince William By John Escott Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Table of Contents Chapter one: A New Prince! Chapter two: Early Days Chapter three: School Days Chapter four: An Accident at School Chapter five: Charles and Diana Divorce Chapter six: ‘Please Stay Away!’ Chapter seven: The Car Accident Chapter eight: ‘William, We Love You!’ Chapter one A New Prince! It is the evening of 21 June 1982 — the first day of summer. Newspaper and television reporters near the doors of St Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, London, talk quickly into their telephones. ‘It’s a boy ... Yes! ... Princess Diana has a little boy ... at 9.03 this evening ... England has a new prince! ... Yes, and mother and child are well ... We’re waiting to see Prince Charles At eleven o’clock that night, Prince Charles - the Prince of Wales — comes out of the hospital. He answers questions from the reporters about his new son. ‘He has blue eyes,’ Prince Charles says. ‘He and his mother are very well. They’re coming home tomorrow.’ ‘What’s his name?’ the reporters want to know. Prince Charles smiles. ‘We don’t know,’ he says. ‘We’re thinking about it.’ Charles likes the name Arthur, but Diana does not. She wants William. A week later, the reporters have their answer: William Arthur Philip Louis. His mother’s name for him is ‘Wills’. Chapter two Early Days Prince Charles wants Mabel Anderson to be Prince William’s nanny. She was Prince Charles’s nanny years before. Princess Diana says no. She doesn’t want an old person. They give the job to Barbara Barnes. William at the age of two. Princess Diana is a very loving mother. She likes having William near her, and her bedroom at Kensington Palace is near his room. Later, she often gets into bed with William and his brother at night. She says, ‘Who loves you?’ They answer, ‘You!’ The princess smiles. ♦ It is 1983. Prince Charles and Princess Diana are going to visit Australia and New Zealand. But Diana wants to be with William. What can she do? Then the Prime Minister of Australia, Malcolm Fraser, writes a letter to Diana. In it he says, ‘Please bring Prince William with you.’ Diana talks to Charles, and he says yes. They take William to Australia with them. The young prince stays in Woomargama, a place in New South Wales, with Nanny Barnes. His mother and father often visit him. ♦ On 15 September 1984, a new brother arrives for William. Two days later, he goes to the hospital to see him. The new child’s name is Harry, and William loves playing with him. Chapter three School Days A year later, on 24 September 1985, William starts school at Mrs. Mynor’s School in Netting Hill, in London. It is very near to Kensington Palace. A policeman goes to school with William every day. On the first morning William runs out of the car, but his mother stops him. The newspaper reporters all want to take his photograph. Television reporters want his picture, too. William goes to school two mornings a week, then every morning. Now he knows numbers, and he can write his name. He quickly makes a lot of friends. But he is not always a good boy at home. ‘Go to bed, William,’ says Nanny Barnes. ‘No,’ says William. ‘You can’t say that to me! I’m going to be king one day.’ ♦ In January, 1987, William has a new nanny — Ruth Wallace. William’s name for her is ‘Nanny Roof’. At the same time, William starts at Wetherby School. This is in Notting Hill, too. Here he plays a lot of sports, and he gets a prize for swimming. Every year the school has a Sports Day. William and his friends watch Princess Diana and Prince Charles in the games for mothers and fathers. He moves to Ludgrove School in Berkshire in September 1990. He lives there, and he goes home for school holidays. William is very happy at Ludgrove. Again, he plays a lot of games, and he is good at football. At twelve, he gets a prize for shooting. Prince Charles likes country sports and often takes his young son with him. William watches his father shooting at Sandringham, one of the Queen’s country homes. After that, William wants to shoot, too. At Ludgrove, William is good at writing. He gets the school prize for writing in 1992. Chapter four An Accident at School It is June 1991, and William is playing golf with his friends at Ludgrove. Suddenly, there is an accident. A friend hits him on the head. The school sends William to a hospital in Reading. Princess Diana in a game for mothers. Princess Diana is eating with a friend. She hears about the accident and goes quickly to the hospital. Prince Charles also hears about it and drives to Reading. The doctors are not happy. They send William to Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, in London. Diana goes with William, and Prince Charles goes in his car. At Great Ormond Street, William has a small but important operation on his head. His mother waits at the hospital. Prince Charles cannot stay because he has important visitors. But the operation goes well. The doctors say to Princess Diana, ‘William is OK.’ Chapter five Charles and Diana Divorce William often telephones his mother from school. He likes talking to her, and she wants to talk to him. Diana and Charles are not happy. William knows this. He knows about their problems, and he is unhappy about them. They are not good for the Queen or for the country, and William knows this, too. Prince Charles and Princess Diana do not live in the same house. Charles lives in his country home at Highgrove House. William visits him there. He likes Highgrove, and he loves his father. But it is a difficult time for him. William likes watching television. William at the age of nine. ‘Television is bad for you,’ his father says. 'Why don’t you read a book or come for a walk in the country?’1 Princess Diana lives at Kensington Palace with the boys. William loves to run to his mother’s bedroom every morning. Pie plays games with her and they talk. ♦ One day, William says to Harry, ‘I’m going to be a policeman.’ ‘You can’t,’ says Harry. ‘You’re going to be king.’ William does not want to think about this. William skiing in Klosters. Prince Charles and Princess Diana divorce in August, 1996. After that, holidays with their mother and father are never the same for William and Harry. Their mother takes them to the Caribbean to swim in the sea. Or she takes them skiing in Canada or America. Charles takes them skiing in Klosters, in Switzerland, or to Greece, or on a boat in the Mediterranean.They often go to Balmoral, the Queen’s home in Scotland. After the divorce, William and his brother have a new nanny at their father’s home. Her name is Alexandra ‘Tiggy’ Legge-Bourke and she is young. Diana is not very happy about Tiggy, but William and Harry like her. Chapter six ‘Please Stay Away!’ After Ludgrove, William goes to England’s famous school for boys — Eton. It is a friendly school. He is very happy there, and he has many friends. Sometimes William goes out of the school with two or three boys. They go into the town of Windsor, to the shops or to a cafe. William likes going shopping sometimes. But two policemen always go with the boys, and they are always near. Sometimes photographers go after them and take photographs. William does not like this. And newspaper reporters often write stories about his unhappy mother and father. This makes him very unhappy, too. But he is starting to look at girls! He has pictures of girls at Eton — photographs of beautiful girls and young women from television and films. One year at Klosters, William meets a girl. She goes skiing with him, and they have a very happy time. Every year, at Eton, there is an Open Day. The boys’ families can visit the school on that important day. But one year, William does not want his mother and father at the Open Day. It is a happy day for his friends and their families, and he does not want a lot of photographers there. The prince and princess understand, and they do not go. But William does ask Tiggy. It is a happy day for William. He eats with Tiggy. Then he and one of his friends walk and talk with the mothers, fathers and sisters of the boys. And they meet a lot of beautiful young girls! Chapter seven The Car Accident Early in the morning of 31 August 1997, Princess Diana comes out of the Ritz Hotel in Paris with Dodi Fayed. A short time later, they are dead, in a car accident. Princess Diana is only thirty-six years old. William on his first day at Eton. William and Harry are on holiday at Balmoral with their lather. At 3 o’clock in the morning, Charles and die Queen hear about the accident. The two young princes are sleeping. At 7.30, their father talks to them about the accident. He then telephones Tiggy. She comes to Scotland to be with the boys. William looks at the thousands of flowers near Kensington Palace. William and Harry go to church with their father later that morning. Newspaper and television reporters and a small number of people watch quietly. Five days later, Charles and his sons go to London and look at the thousands of flowers near Kensington Palace. They talk to some of the people there. People in every country watch the pictures of William on television. Prince William is not a boy now - he is a young man. ♦ Diana was a very good mother. ‘Her boys’ were very important to her. And she wanted to teach them about people - not only about queens, princes and princesses. William went shopping with her and they went into cafes. They went to see people with no homes, and to see very ill people. Now Diana is dead, and Prince Charles is trying to do some of the same things with William and his brother. It is a difficult time for them all, but they are a strong and loving family. Princess Dianas family want to do things for William and Harry, too. Newspaper reporters do not write about William or Harry very often now, or take photographs of them. There are not many pictures of them on television. Many people say, ‘This is right. They are only young boys.’ Chapter eight ‘William, We Love You!’ William and Harry go to Canada with their father for a skiing holiday. Hundreds of girls wait for a long time in the hot sun in Vancouver. They want to see Prince William and Prince Harry. The big car stops. The doors open. There are the two young princes. ‘William! William!’ the girls say. ‘We love you!’ And they give him flowers. This is very difficult for William, but he smiles. He takes the flowers and talks to one or two of the girls. ‘Thank you,’ he says. Some days later, William visits a school in Vancouver. Girls are waiting there to see him, too, and to give him flowers. ‘I love him!’ says one girl. ‘I’ve got pictures of him at home in my bedroom!’ ♦ And now? William likes Eton and has some very good friends there. But he does not talk about them. He is ‘Wills’ to them. He loves Highgrove House, and he goes there at weekends and in the school holidays. It is quiet there. There are no reporters, and no photographers. He and Harry play football in the gardens. They swim at Highgrove, too. There are pictures of sports men and women in their bedrooms. William talks to one or two of the girls. Their London home is in St James’s Palace now. William likes driving. He likes skiing. He likes shooting and all country sports. He loves going to Balmoral in Scotland. He likes reading books and going to the cinema. He likes animals, and he has a dog. The dog’s name is Widgeon. ♦ William is a young man, but one day he is going to be King of England. He knows this, but he does not think about it all the time. William is a prince, but he is his mother’s son. He has her blue eyes and friendly smile. She was the ‘People’s Princess’. William is the ‘People’s Prince’. — THE END – Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! Learn English Through Story The Elephant Man By Tim Vicary Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Contents Chapter 1 The Creature in the Shop Chapter 2 The Card Chapter 3 A Letter to “The Times” Chapter 4 Merrick’s First Home Chapter 5 An Important Visitor Chapter 6 Outside the Hospital Chapter 7 The Last Letter Chapter one The Creature in the Shop My name is Dr Frederick Treves. I am a doctor at the London Hospital. One day in 1884, I saw a picture in the window of a shop near the hospital. I stopped in front of the shop and looked at the picture. At first I felt interested, then I felt angry, then afraid. It was a horrible, ugly picture. The was a man in the picture, but he did not look like you and me. He did not look like a man. He looked like an elephant. I read the writing under the picture. It said: Come in and see the Elephant Man. Two pence. I opened the door and went in. There was a man in the shop. He was a dirty man in an old coat with a cigarette in his mouth. 'What do you want?' he asked. 'I'd like to see the elephant man, please,' I said. The man looked at me angrily. 'Well, you can't,' he said. 'The shop's closing now. You can come back tomorrow.' 'I'm sorry,' I said. 'But I would like to see him now. I have no time tomorrow - I have a lot of work to do. But I can give you more than two pence.' The man looked at me carefully. Then he took the cigarette out of his mouth and smiled with his yellow teeth. 'All right, sir,' he said. 'Give me twelve pence then.' I gave him the money and he opened a door at the back of the shop. We went into a little room. The room was cold and dark, and there was a horrible smell in it. A creature sat on a chair behind a table. I say a creature, because it was not a man or a woman, like you or me. The creature did not move or look at us. It sat very quietly on the chair in the cold, dark, dirty room, and looked at the table. The creature had a cloth over its head, because of the cold. On the table in front of it, there was a dead flower. 'Stand up!' said the shopkeeper, loudly. The creature stood up slowly. It took the old cloth off its head, and put it on the chair. I looked at the creature and felt sad. I am a doctor, so I know a lot about accidents and ill people. I see horrible, ugly things every day. But this creature, this thing, was the worst of all. There were no men or women in the hospital like him. He wore some old trousers, but no shirt, coat, or shoes, so I could see his body very well. His head was the most interesting thing. It was very, very big - like an enormous bag with a lot of books in it. The head did not have much hair, and there was another bag of brown, dirty skin at the back of it. This skin came down below his neck. I could not see one of his eyes very well, because a lot of skin came down in front of his face, too. An enormous red tooth came out of his mouth, under his nose. It looked like an elephant's tooth. The mouth and nose were like holes in the face. The face could not smile or laugh or look angry or sad, because the skin could not move. It was dead, like an elephant's face. There were more bags of dirty skin on the front and back of the creature's body. These bags came down to his legs. The right arm was enormous, and there were bags of skin on it, too. The right hand was like a man's foot. But the left hand - the left arm and the left hand were beautiful! The left arm had wonderful skin, and the fingers of the left hand were long and beautiful. It was like a young woman's hand! 'Walk, Merrick!' said the shopkeeper angrily. 'Come on, quickly, move!' He hit the creature with his hand. Slowly, the creature walked across the room. But he could not walk well. His legs were very big and fat, and he had a bad back. He could not walk far without a stick. 'All right, thank you,' I said. 'Let him sit down. I don't want to see any more.' I felt ill, and the smell in the room was very bad. 'Yes, sir,' said the shopkeeper. 'Sit down, Merrick.' We went out of the room and closed the door. The shopkeeper smiled at me with his yellow teeth. 'Wonderful, sir, isn't it?' he said. 'The best Elephant Man in England! Hundreds of people come to see him, you know, hundreds! I take him all over the country, I do!' 'Yes, very interesting,' I said. 'Can I sit down?' 'Yes, sir, of course. Here's a chair.' He looked at me, smiling. 'Would you like a glass of water, sir?' 'Yes, please,' I said. Then I looked at the things in the dirty shop. There were two or three bad apples and some old black bananas: that was all. 'Er, no... no, thank you. Em all right,' I said. 'Did you... did you call the creature Merrick?' 'That's right, sir. Joseph Merrick. The best Elephant Man in England! I take him all over the country, you know. Lots of people want to see him.' 'Yes, I see. Do you get a lot of money?' 'Well, sometimes we do, sir, yes. But it's difficult, you see, sir, because of the police. The police don't like us, you see, sir. So we can't stay in a town very long. We usually move every week.' 'Yes, I see. Well, anyway, Mr... er?' 'Silcock, sir. Simon Silcock.' 'Yes, well, Mr Silcock, I'm a doctor at the London Hospital. My name is Dr Treves. I think this... er... this man Joseph Merrick is very interesting, and I would like to see him at the hospital. I want to look at him more carefully, you see.' 'Yes sir, I see. But how can he get to the hospital? It's going to be difficult.' 'Why, man? The hospital's not far from here.' 'Well, yes, sir. I know. But, you see, Merrick can't walk very well. He needs help.' 'You can come with him. Do you want more money? Is that it?' 'Well, yes, sir, I do. But, you see, people are afraid of him too... In the road, little boys always run after him and hit him. Then the police get angry because people are afraid. Sometimes they take us to prison.' 'I see,' I said. 'Well, how can he come to the hospital, then?' 'Bring a cab, sir,' said Silcock. 'You can take him to the hospital in a cab.' Chapter two The Card So next day, at seven o'clock, I came to the shop in a cab. There were not very many people in the road, because it was early in the morning. In November it is dark at seven o'clock in the morning, and I could not see the shop very well. I waited five minutes. A postman walked past. Then the door of the shop opened, and the creature, Merrick, came out. I could not see his face or his body. He had an enormous black hat on his head, like a big box. A grey cloth came down from the hat, in front of his face. There was a hole in the cloth in front of his eyes. He could see out of the hole but I could not see in. He wore a long black coat, too. The coat began at his neck, and ended at his feet, so I could not see his arms, his body, or his legs. On his feet he wore big shoes, like old bags. He had a stick in his left hand, and he walked very slowly. I opened the door of the cab, and got out. 'Good morning, Mr Merrick,' I said. 'Can you get in?' 'Elpmyupasteps,' he said. 'I'm sorry,' I said. 'I don't understand.' For a minute he stood by the door of the cab and said nothing. Then he hit the cab with his stick. 'STEPS!' he said loudly. 'Help me up the steps!' Then I understood. There were three steps up into the cab, and he could not get up them. 'Yes, I see. I'm sorry,' I said. 'Let me help you.' I took his left hand and began to help him. My right hand was behind his back. I felt very strange. His left hand was like a young woman's, but his back, under the coat, was horrible. I could feel the bags of old skin on his back under the coat. He put one enormous foot on the first step, and then he stopped. After a minute, he moved his second foot slowly. Then he stopped and waited again. 'Hello, sir. Can I help you?' I looked behind me. It was the postman. And behind him, I could see three young boys. One of the boys laughed. The postman smiled. 'Is the gentleman ill?' he asked. I thought quickly. 'Yes. But this is a lady, not a gentleman. I'm a doctor, and she's ill. Take her hand, so I can help her better.' The postman took Merrick's left hand, and I helped him with two hands from behind. Slowly, very slowly, Merrick went up the steps and into the cab. One boy was very near the cab. He called to his friends. 'Come and see this, boys! A fat lady in a black coat! And look at that enormous hat!' The boys laughed. They were very near the cab too, now. I closed the door quickly. 'Thank you,' I said to the postman. 'That's all right, sir,' he said. 'She's a strange lady, sir, isn't she?' 'She's ill, that's all,' I said quickly. 'We're going to the hospital. Goodbye, and thank you.' The cab drove down the road to the hospital. I looked at Merrick. 'That was difficult, wasn't it?' I said. At first he said nothing, but then he spoke. His voice was very strange, but I listened to him carefully, and I could understand him. 'The steps were very difficult,' he said. 'But most things are difficult for me.' 'Yes,' I said. 'Nothing is easy for you, is it?' 'No,' he said. He was very quiet for a minute. Then he said, 'Who are you, sir?' 'Who am I? Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Dr Treves. Here, this is my card.' I gave him a card with my name on. Then I thought, 'That was no good. This man can't read.' But Merrick took the card and looked at it very carefully. Then he put it in his trousers pocket. I did not talk to him very much at the hospital. I looked at his head and arms and legs and body very carefully. Then I wrote the important things about him in a little book. A nurse helped me. Merrick looked at her sometimes, but she did not smile at him or talk to him. I think she was afraid of him. I think Merrick was afraid too, because he was very quiet. At four o'clock I took him back to the shop in a cab. The next day I looked in the shop window again, but the picture was not there. Chapter three A Letter to “The Times” I did not see Merrick again for two years. Then, one day, the police found him. He had my card in his hand, so they brought him to the London Hospital. He was very tired, hungry, and dirty, so I put him to bed in a quiet little room. But he could not stay at the hospital. He was not ill, and of course the beds in the hospital are for ill people. We have no beds for hungry people, or ugly people. I told the Hospital Chairman, Mr. Carr Gomm, about Merrick. He listened carefully, and then he wrote a letter to the editor of The Times newspaper. From The Times, December 4th, 1886 A Letter to the Editor Dear Sir, I am writing to you about a man in our hospital. He needs your help. His name is Joseph Merrick, and he is 27 years old. He is not ill, but he cannot go out of the hospital because he is very, very ugly. Nobody likes to look at him, and some people are afraid of him. We call him the 'Elephant Man'. Two years ago, Merrick lived in a shop near the London Hospital. For two pence, people could see him and laugh at him. One day Dr Frederick Treves - a hospital doctor - saw Merrick, brought him to this hospital, and looked at him carefully. Dr Treves could not help Merrick, but he gave him his card. Then the shopkeeper, Silcock, took Merrick to Belgium. A lot of people in Belgium wanted to see him, and so after a year Merrick had pound(s)50. But then Silcock took Merrick's pound(s)50, left Merrick in Belgium, and went back to London. Merrick came back to London by himself. Everyone on the train and the ship looked at him, and laughed at him. In London, the police put him in prison. But then they saw Dr Treves's card, and brought Merrick to the London Hospital. This man has no money, and he cannot work. His face and body are very, very ugly, so of course many people are afraid of him. But he is a very interesting man. He can read and write, and he thinks a lot. He is a good, quiet man. Sometimes he makes things with his hands and gives them to the nurses, because they are kind to him. He remembers his mother, and he has a picture of her. She was beautiful and kind, he says. But he never sees her now. She gave him to Silcock a long time ago. Can the readers of The Times help us? This man is not ill, but he needs a home. We can give him a room at the hospital, but we need some money. Please write to me at the London Hospital. Yours faithfully, F.C. Carr Gomm Chairman of the London Hospital The readers of The Times are very kind people. They gave us a lot of money. After one week, we had pound(s)50,000, so Merrick could live in the hospital for all his life. We could give him a home. Chapter four Merrick’s First Home We gave Merrick two rooms at the back of the hospital. One room was a bathroom, so he could have a bath every day. Soon his skin was much better, and there was no horrible smell. The second room had a bed, table, and chairs. I visited him every day, and talked to him. He loved reading, and talking about books. At first he did not know many books: the Bible, and one or two newspapers, that's all. But I gave him some books of love stories, and he liked them very much. He read them again and again, and talked about them often. For him, the men and women in these books were alive, like you and me. He was very happy. But sometimes it was difficult for him. At first, one or two people in the hospital laughed at Merrick because he was ugly. Sometimes, they brought their friends to look at him. One day a new nurse came to the hospital, and nobody told her about Merrick. She took his food to his room, and opened the door. Then she saw him. She screamed, dropped the food on the floor, and ran out of the room. I was very angry with the nurse, and went to see Merrick. He was not happy about it, but he was not very angry. I think he felt sorry for the girl. 'People don't like looking at me. I know that, Dr Treves,' he said. 'They usually laugh or scream.' 'Well, I don't want nurses to laugh at you, Joseph,' I said angrily. 'I want them to help you.' 'Thank you, doctor,' he said, in his strange slow voice. 'But it's not important. Everyone laughs at me. I understand that.' I looked at him sadly. In his one good hand, his left hand, he had the little picture of his mother. He looked at the picture for a minute, and then put it by a flower on the table. A tear ran out of his eye and down the skin of his enormous, ugly face. 'Dr Treves,' he said, slowly. 'You and the nurses are very kind, and I'm very happy here. Thank you very much. But... I know I can't stay here long, and... I would like to live in a lighthouse, after the hospital, please. A lighthouse, or a home for blind people. I think those are the best places for me.' 'What do you mean?' I asked. 'Why?' He did not look at me. He put the flower on the picture and looked at it carefully. 'Lighthouses have sea all round them, don't they?' he said. 'Nobody could look at me in a lighthouse, so I would be happy there. And blind people can see nothing, so they couldn't see me, could they?' 'But Joseph,' I said, 'this is your home. You live here now. You aren't going to leave the hospital.' 'Not today, perhaps,' he said. 'But soon. You are a kind man, Dr Treves. But I can't stay here very long. I have no money.' I smiled. 'Joseph,' I said. 'This is your home now. Don't you understand? You can stay here all your life.' Very carefully, I told him about the letter to The Times, and the money. I don't think he understood at first, so I told him again. He was very quiet for a minute. Then he stood up, and walked up and down the room very quickly. A strange sound came from him, like laughing. Chapter five An Important Visitor I did not want Merrick to live by himself, like a man in a lighthouse. He read his books, and talked to me, but I wanted him to talk to more people. And I wanted him to talk to women. Merrick read about women in his books, but he did not often talk to women. He met the nurses every day, but they did not talk to him very much. For them, he was always a creature, not a man. One day, one of my friends, a beautiful young woman, came to the hospital. I told her about Merrick, and took her to his room. She opened the door, and smiled at him. 'Good morning, Mr Merrick,' she said. Then she shook his hand. Merrick looked at her for a minute with his mouth open. Then he sat down on his bed, with his head in his hand, and cried. He cried for nearly five minutes. The tears ran down his face, between his fingers, and onto the floor. My friend sat on the bed beside him and put her hand on his arm. She said nothing, but she smiled at him and shook his hand again before she left. 'Dr Treves,' he said to me that night. 'That lady was wonderful! My mother smiled at me once, many years ago, but no women smile at me now. But this lady smiled at me too, and she shook my hand! A beautiful lady smiled at me and shook my hand!' My young lady friend came again the next week, and talked to Merrick for half an hour. The week after that, she came again with a friend. They gave him some books, and had a cup of tea with him. It was wonderful for him. For the first time in his life, he had some friends. He was a very happy man. He sat in his room, and read his books, and said no more about living on a lighthouse. People began to read about Merrick in the newspapers, so he had a lot of visitors. Everybody wanted to see him. A lot of important ladies and - gentlemen visited him. They smiled at him, shook his hand, and gave him books. Merrick liked talking to these people, and he began to forget about his ugly body. His visitors never laughed at him. He began to feel like a man, not a creature. One wonderful day, a very important lady came to the hospital to visit him. I met the lady, and took her to his room. Then I opened the door, and smiled at him. 'Good morning, Joseph,' I said. 'There is a new visitor to see you today. A very famous lady.' Merrick stood up beside his table. He did not smile, because his face could not smile, but his eyes looked happy. 'That's good,' he said. 'Who is it?' I moved away from the door, and the visitor walked in. 'Your Majesty, this is Joseph Merrick,' I said. 'Joseph, this is Her Majesty, Queen Alexandra, the Queen of England.' Queen Alexandra smiled at him. 'How do you do, Mr Merrick,' she said. 'I'm very pleased to meet you.' Then she shook his hand. Merrick did not move. For nearly half a minute he stood and looked at her with his mouth open. Then he spoke, in his strange, slow voice. 'How... how do you do, Your Majesty,' he said. But I don't think the Queen understood him, because he tried to get down on his knees at the same time. It was very difficult for him, because of his enormous legs. 'No, please, Mr Merrick, do get up,' said the Queen. 'I would like to talk to you. Can we sit at your table?' 'Yes... yes, of course,' he said. They sat at the table. She took his left hand, the good hand, in hers. She looked at the hand carefully, and then smiled at Merrick again. 'I often read about you in the newspapers,' she said. 'You are a very interesting man, Mr Merrick. You have a very difficult life, but people say you're happy. Is it true? Are you happy now?' 'Oh, yes, Your Majesty, yes!' said Merrick. 'I'm a very happy man! I have a home here now, and friends, and my books. I'm happy every hour of the day!' 'What a wonderful story!' she said. 'I'm very pleased to hear it. Now, tell me about your reading. I see you have a lot of books here.' 'Oh, yes, Your Majesty. I love my books,' said Merrick. And for nearly half an hour they sat and talked about books. The Queen gave him a little book, and some red flowers, before she left. After her visit, Merrick began to sing. He could not sing easily, of course, because of his mouth, but all that day there was a strange, happy noise in his room. He looked at the flowers carefully, and put them on his table. He had many visits from the Queen, and at Christmas she sent him a Christmas card. The present was a picture of Queen Alexandra, with her name on it. Merrick cried over it, and put it carefully by the bed in his room. Then he sat down and wrote a letter to the Queen. It was the first letter of his life. The London Hospital 23rd December 1888 My Dear Queen, Thank you very, very much for your wonderful card and the beautiful picture. It is best thing in my room, the very best, the most beautiful thing I have. This is the first Christmas present. Perhaps I had a Christmas with my mother once, but I do not remember it. I have my mother's picture too, and she is beautiful, like you. But now I know many famous ladies and kind people like you. But Dr Treves, and I am a very happy man. I am happy too because I am going to see you in New Year. Happy Christmas to you, my dear friend. With all my love, Joseph Merrick Chapter six Outside the Hospital Merrick had a lot of friends now, but he was more like a child than a man. He could read about things, and talk to his visitors, but he could not go out of the hospital by himself. He thought and played like a child. After Christmas, he wanted to go to the theatre. This was very difficult, because I did not want the people in the theatre to see him. But a kind lady from the theatre - Mrs Kendal - helped us. We bought tickets for a box at the side of the theatre. We went to the theatre in a cab with dark windows, and we went into the theatre by a door at the back - the Queen's door. Nobody saw us. Three nurses sat at the front of the box, and Merrick and I sat in the dark behind them. Nobody in the theatre could see us, but we could see the play. It was a children's Christmas play. Merrick loved it. It was a most wonderful, exciting story. Often he laughed, and sometimes he tried to sing like the children in the theatre. He was like a child. For him, everything in the story was true. Once he was very afraid, because the bad man in the play was angry and had a knife. At first Merrick wanted to leave the theatre, but I stopped him. Then he was very angry with this bad man in the play. He hit his hand on his chair, and stood up and talked to the man. But nobody heard him. When the bad man went to prison, Merrick laughed. Merrick thought the beautiful young lady in the play was wonderful. He wanted to talk to her too. At the end of the play he was very happy because she married a good young man. He remembered this play for a long time, and he talked a lot about the people in it. 'What do you think they did after we left?' he asked me. 'Where do the young lady and the young man live? What are they doing now?' 'I don't know,' I said. 'Perhaps they live in the country.' Merrick thought about this for a long time. Then he said: 'Dr Treves, can I go to the country, please? I saw the country once from a train, but I never went there. I often read about it in books. It's very beautiful, isn't it? I would like to see it.' The visit to the theatre was difficult but a visit to the country was more difficult. But again, one of his new friends helped us. She had a small house in the country, and Merrick could stay in it for the summer, she said. I took Merrick to the country in a train with dark windows, so nobody could see him. Then we went in a cab to the country house. There were a lot of trees near the house, but no people lived near it. A countryman brought food to the house every day, but no people came near it. I stayed with him that night. At night, it was very dark and quiet. In the morning, hundreds of birds sang in the trees, and everything outside the house was green. Merrick walked under the big trees, looking at things happily, and singing his strange song. I went back to London, but Merrick stayed there for six weeks. He was wonderfully happy. Every week, he wrote me a letter. Apple Tree House, West Wickham, Berkshire. 21st July 1889 Dear Dr Treves, I had a wonderful day again today. It was very warm, so I walked under the trees and sat by a stream. The water in the stream made a beautiful noise, like singing. Did you know that? I listened to it for two hours. Lots of little birds came near me. One had a red body in front, and a brown back. I gave it some bread, and it sat on my hand. A lot of birds are my friends, now. I watched the fish in the stream, too. They were very exciting, because they move very fast. One minute they were there, and the next minute I couldn't see them. But I waited quietly, and they always came back. I put my hand in the water, but I couldn't touch them. I met a big dog yesterday. It made a very loud noise, but I was not afraid. I sat down quietly and looked at it, and it came and smelt my hand. I saw it again today, and gave it some bread. It likes me now. I am going to put some flowers from the country in this letter. There are hundreds of flowers here. Did you know that? I like the little blue ones best, but they are all beautiful. I have lots of them in my room. I give them water every morning. Little flowers are very thirsty, you know! I am very happy here, doctor, but I want to see you again soon, too. With love from your friend, Joseph Merrick At the end of the summer he came back to London. He was very well, and his skin looked much better. He talked about the country a lot, but he was happy to see his friends and his books again, too. Chapter seven The Last Letter Six months later, in April 1890, I found him dead in bed. He was on his back in bed, so at first I thought he was asleep. I talked to him, but he did not move. Then I saw that the skin on his face was blue, so I knew he was dead. He did not usually sleep on his back. His enormous head was very heavy, so he usually sat up in bed with his arms round his legs, and his head on his knees. He could sleep well like this. But he wanted to sleep on his back like you and me. He tried to sleep on his back that night, but his heavy head came off the bed, and he broke his neck. He died very quickly. Next day, the Chairman of the London Hospital, Mr Carr Gomm, wrote to the editor of The Times again. The Times, April 16th, 1890 Dear Sir, Three and a half years ago I wrote to you about a man called Joseph Merrick. This man was called the 'Elephant Man' because he was born with a very ugly body. Merrick was not ill, but he could not work, and he had no money. The readers of The Times felt sorry for him, and they gave me a lot of money for Merrick. Because of this money, we could give Merrick a home in the London Hospital. It was his first good home, and for three and a half years he lived here happily. The doctors and nurses of the hospital helped him, and many important people visited him. He read many books, he went to the theatre, and in the summer he stayed in the country for six weeks. Because of your readers' money, we could give him a happy life. Last night Joseph Merrick died quietly in his bed. He was a man with a very ugly body, but he was a good, kind man, and he had a lot of friends. We liked to talk to him, and we are all very sorry because he is dead. A lot of people are going to remember him for a long time. There is some money left, so I am going to give it to the hospital. Thank you, sir, for your help. Yours faithfully, F.C. Carr Gomm Chairman of the London Hospital — Learn English Through Story Ali and his Camera By Raymond Pizante Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Ali lives in Istanbul, a big city in Turkey. He lives in an old building near the famous Blue Mosque. After school, Ali comes home and sits at the window. He looks at the boats. They are going out to sea. ‘What are you doing?’ Ali’s mother asks. ‘I’m taking photos of those boats,’ Ali says. His mother looks at him and laughs. ‘Photos? How can you take photos? You haven’t got a camera!’ ‘I know that, Mother! I’m taking photos in my head. I can see the photos here!’ Ali shows a place near his eyes. His mother laughs again. ‘Stop talking and go to your father’s shop!’ she tells him. Ali’s father sells vegetables and fruit. Ali works in the shop after school. ‘Don’t move. Stand there near the door!’ Ali says suddenly. ‘Why?’ his father asks. ‘I want to take your photo!’ Ali’s father smiles. ‘My photo? First, get a camera. Then you can take my photo!’ ‘Buy me a camera!’ Ali says. Ali’s father stops smiling. ‘I haven’t got any money for cameras,’ he says slowly. Every afternoon, Ali walks in the old city of Istanbul. He looks at the houses near the water. Some houses are very old. He watches the men on the bridge. They are catching fish. He watches the boats. He watches, and he sees photos in his head. ‘How can I get a camera?’ he thinks. Suddenly, he has the answer. ‘I’m going to work in the market! ’ There is an old market near Ali’s school. There are small shops in the market. People buy and sell food there. Ali goes there every afternoon after school. He works with a smile. He carries bags for people. People like him and they give him money. He puts it in his pocket. ‘One day I’m going to have a lot of money,’ Ali says to his mother. ‘Then I can buy a camera. And then I’m going to take a photo of you in the kitchen.’ ‘No, not in the kitchen! On the balcony, with your father,’ his mother says. ‘No, not on the balcony — in my shop,’ his father says. One afternoon, Ali is carrying a heavy bag for an old man. ‘There’s a man behind us,’ the old man says. ‘Do you know him?’ Ali looks at the man behind them. He is big and strong. ‘No, I don’t know him. He doesn’t work in the market.’ ‘Watch my bag!’ the old man says. ‘Perhaps he’s a thief.’ Ali thinks of the money in his pocket. ‘Let’s walk quickly,’ he tells the old man. ‘I can’t walk quickly. You’re young, but I’m not!’ Suddenly, the big man takes the bag from Ali’s hand and starts to run away. Ali runs after him. The man hits Ali. Ali falls down, and his money falls out of his pocket. The man puts down the bag. Then he takes Ali’s money and runs away. Ali gives the bag to the old man. ‘Thank you very much,’ the old man says. ‘You're a very good young man.’ Ali is unhappy, but he does not talk about the money. That evening, he does not tell his mother and father about it. ‘I can start again,’ he thinks. The day after that, Ali is at the market. People are making a lot of noise. Ali is standing and waiting for work. Suddenly, an old woman comes to him and says, ‘Can you carry my two heavy bags? I live near the statue of Ataturk.’ He carries them for her. 'Are they very heavy?’ she asks. 'Not for me. I’m very strong,’ Ali says. They arrive at the statue of Ataturk. 'Remember Ataturk. He was a very important man for Turkey,’ the old woman says. 'I'll take a photo of you and Ataturk,’ Ali says. 'Where’s your camera?’ the old woman asks. 'I haven’t got a camera,’ Ali says. The old woman looks at him. Then she smiles. 'Right. Take my photo without a camera. But wait. First, I’m going to do get my hat,’ she says. They come to the old woman’s street. Ali carries the bags up to her flat. It is a big flat with a lot of pictures. 'How much money do you want?’ the old woman asks. ‘How much do you want to give me?’ Ali answers. ‘Sit here and wait,’ she says. She goes into a small room and comes back with a camera in her hand. ‘This was my son’s first camera. Take it,’ she says. Ali looks at the camera for a long time. He takes it in his hand. Then he gives it back to the old woman. ‘It’s a beautiful camera. I ... I can’t take it,’ he says. She takes Ali’s hand and puts the camera in it again. ‘My son doesn’t want it. He has a new camera now.’ ‘You’re very good to me. How can I thank you?’ Ali says. ‘Come again one day and take my photo. A real photo. And here’s some money for today.’ ‘I can’t take your money. But I can carry your bags from the market again,’ Ali says. ‘You’re a good boy. Remember my name. It’s Mrs Yildiz,’ she tells him. ‘Of course, Mrs Yildiz,’ Ali says. ‘Goodbye, Ali. Take good photos with my son’s camera.’ Ali runs home and tells his mother about Mrs Yildiz and the camera. ‘Does it work?’ his mother says. ‘Yes, it works. I’m going to take your photo now,’ Ali answers. ‘But there’s no film in it, son,’ his mother says. She gives him some money. ‘Go and buy some film. And I want to buy a new dress. Then you can take my photo.’ ‘Thank you,’ he says. ‘But I want to buy film with my money, not yours!’ Ali works every day in the market after school. Every evening he comes home late. ‘This is difficult,’ he thinks. ‘People do a lot of work for very little money.’ But one day, Ali has the money for some film. ‘I can take real photos now,’ he thinks. Ali remembers Mrs Yildiz and goes to her flat. She opens the door and sees him. She is very happy. ‘I want to take your photo, Mrs Yildiz,’ Ali says. She takes Ali into the kitchen. A tall man is drinking coffee there. ‘This is my son, Yusuf. Take a photo of me with him. Come, Yusuf. Sit here with me.’ ‘Smile, please,’ Ali says, and he takes their photo. ‘Yusuf works for a newspaper. He can teach you about photos,’ Mrs Yildiz says. Ali looks at Yusuf. ‘Can you? I want to learn. I want to take good photos,’ he says. Yusuf looks at Ali and smiles. ‘Go out and take some photos. Then, come to the newspaper and show them to me’ he says. ‘I’m going to take a lot of photos. They’re all in my head now,’ Ali says. Ali walks in the streets of Istanbul. Suddenly, the city looks very beautiful. He takes photos of bridges and boats and old mosques. He takes photos of people in the streets and in shops. Then, one day, he goes to see Yusuf at the newspaper. Yusuf looks at the photos. ‘Hmm, not bad,’ he says. ‘Not bad?’ Ali says. ‘Yes. Not bad. Your photos are not bad.’ ‘They aren’t good?’ ‘Some of the photos are good, but some of them aren’t,’ Yusuf tells Ali. Ali is not happy about this. Suddenly, he says, ‘Give me my photos, please.’ He is angry, but Yusuf does not understand. Ali goes home. He tells his mother about Yusuf and the photos. ‘You weren’t very clever, Ali,’ she says. ‘You aren’t a famous photographer.’ Ali is unhappy. ‘Sometimes I open my mouth and I don’t think first,’ he says. ‘Go to Yusuf. You’re sorry. Tell him that.’ ‘I can’t go now,’ Ali answers. ‘I can’t. I’m angry.’ He walks in the streets. ‘Why did I walk away from Yusuf?’ he thinks. ‘It wasn’t clever. Why didn’t I think first? Why...?’ Suddenly, he sees a small photography shop. He goes in. An old man is sitting at a table. He has a happy face. His name is Selim. ‘I like your shop. You have beautiful cameras. I want to work here,’ Ali says. ‘I can’t give you any money,’ the old man answers. ‘I don’t want money. I want to learn about photography,’ Ali says. ‘Look at my photos, please,’ Ali says. Selim looks at them and then he says, ‘We all see with our eyes. But good photographers see things with the eye of the camera.’ Ali starts to learn. He takes photos of people. He takes photos of doors and windows. ‘Doors and windows are alive, too,’ Selim says. Ali sees a lot of young children in the city. They work in shops, or they sell fruit, cold drinks and newspapers in the streets. Ali takes photos of them, too. There are smiles on their faces, but their eyes are not smiling. Ali shows Selim his new photos. ‘Do you like them?’ ‘Yes,’ Selim says. ‘You’re learning. You’re building photos.’ ‘When can I sell my photos to a newspaper?’ Ali asks. ‘Wait,’ Selim answers. Ali works at the market after school. He always wants money for film. He takes photos of the people at the market, too. Early one Saturday morning, he sees some young children on a bridge. They have big, unhappy eyes and they are fishing. Ali takes a photo of them. He goes to Selim’s flat, in the old city, and he shows Selim the photo of the children on the bridge. Selim looks at it for a long time. ‘Yes,’ he says.’ You’re learning quickly!’ ‘You’re very good to me, Mr Selim. You’re my teacher.’ ‘I like teaching you. You’re a son to me,’ Selim says. One day, Ali sees Mrs Yildiz again, but he walks away quickly. He does not want to see her. ‘Ali, Ali! Why are you running away?’ she asks. Ali stops. I’m not very clever,’ he says. ‘Did Yusuf tell you?’ He tells her about that day in Yusuf s office at the newspaper. ‘I’m sorry now;’ he says. ‘What are you talking about?’ Mrs Yildiz says. ‘Don’t you know? One of your photos is in the newspaper today! ’ ‘My photo? In the newspaper? Which photo?’ ‘There are two children on a bridge. They’re catching a big fish.’ ‘Oh, Mrs Yildiz, I’m very happy,’ Ali says, and he laughs happily. ‘Can I carry your bags for you now?’ ‘No, thank you. Go home now,’ she says. Ali runs to Selim’s shop. ‘My photo’s in the newspaper!’ he tells him. ‘Yes, here it is,’ Selim says, and he shows Ali the newspaper. ‘I don’t understand! How...? Who...?’ Selim is smiling. ‘It was you! You showed my photo to Yusuf!’ Selim smiles again. Then he says, ‘But you can’t stop learning.’ ‘Yes, you’re right,’ Ali says. ‘Tomorrow is a very important day for you.’ Ali doesn’t understand. ‘Tomorrow? Why is tomorrow important?’ ‘The newspaper has a job for a young person,’ Selim tells him. ‘That person is going to learn about photography. And that young person is you. You’re going to start your new job tomorrow.’ They laugh and laugh. — Learn English Through Story Anna and the Fighter By Elizabeth Laird Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Anna did not sleep all night. She was excited. Early in the morning, her father called her. ‘Come on, Anna! It’s time to get up. It’s a long way to the station.’ Anna got dressed and she was soon ready. She did not eat any breakfast. She was nervous. She was going to visit her aunt in Naira, she was going alone in a train for the first time. Anna and her father left the village and began to walk to the station. It was a long way. They reached the station at midday. Soon the train came. It was nearly empty. Anna got in. She was frightened. It was her first journey away from home. ‘Your aunt will meet you at Naira, her father said. ‘Be careful now, Anna. Don’t talk to any strangers.’ The train started suddenly. Soon it was going fast. Anna watched her father. He looked smaller and smaller; then he disappeared. The train journey was very long. Anna looked out of the window. The fields, trees, villages and animals rushed past. After a long time, she began ro feel sleepy. She was very tired. Slowly, she fell asleep. Later, Anna woke up. It was dark outside. She felt small and lost. She was a long way from her village and her father. There was a man in the carriage with her now. He had an ugly face, and he was very big and strong. His hair was very short. He looked bad and dangerous. The man smiled at Anna. ‘Hello,’ he said. ‘You’re awake now, are you? Where are you going?’ Anna remembered her father’s words. She did not say anything. ‘Are you going to Polona?’ asked the man. Anna was surprised. ‘No, to Naira,’ she said. ‘Naira!’ said the man. ‘But we passed Naira two hours ago! You were asleep.’ Anna wanted ro cry. She sat very still. It was warm in the carriage, but Anna felt cold. ‘We’ve passed Naira?’ she asked. ‘Yes,’ said the man. Anna thought of the journey back to Naira. How much did it cost? She did not have any money. She thought of her aunt at Naira Station. ‘Don’t worry,’ said the man. ‘I’ll help you. What’s your name?’ ‘Anna,’ she said. ‘My name is Sam,’ said the man. ‘You can trust me, Anna. ’ Anna looked at Sam again. He was very ugly. He had a long scar on his face and he looked dangerous. But he seemed kind. Was he good or bad? Anna did The train began to slow down. Sam got up and looked out of the window. Anna saw a newspaper on Sam’s seat. There was a photograph on the back page. It was Sam’s photograph! Above the photograph was a headline: This man is a dangerous fighter! Now Anna was sure. Sam was a bad man, and dangerous too. He was a criminal. Anna must be careful. She must get away from him quickly. Sam left the window. ‘We’re coming into Polona now,' he said. ‘Stay with me. I’ll help you.’ The train stopped. Anna jumped up and ran to the door. She wanted to run away. The door was very heavy. She could not open it. Sam was standing behind her. ‘I’ll open it,’ he said. Anna wanted to run away, but she was frightened of Sam. She was tired and lost. Polona was a big town. Anna did not know anybody there. Sam called a taxi. ‘Get in, Anna,’ he said. Anna got in. ‘The Boxer Hotel,’ Sam said to the driver. The taxi went a long way. The streets of Polona were wide and busy. There were lots of cars, and shops, and people. The taxi turned into a small, dark street and stopped. Sam got out and paid the taxi driver. Anna looked up and down the street. ‘Come on, Anna,’ said Sam. Anna could not run away. She was weak and slow. Sam was big and strong. She followed Sam into the hotel. There was a cafe inside the hotel. It did not look very clean. Two men were drinking and playing cards. They saw Sam. One of them said, ‘Hello, Sami Come and have a drink. Who’s the pretty girl?’ Sam took off his coat and sat down. ‘Hello Tino, hello Bubs,’ he said. ‘This is Anna. She’s lost.’ The men looked at Anna, and laughed. ‘Lost, is she?’ said Tino. ‘Poor Anna. You’re a lucky man, Sam. Have a drink!’ Sam gave Anna a chair. She sat down. She looked at the men. Tino had a moustache. Bubs did not have any front teeth. They looked tough. The men were drinking. Tino gave Anna a glass. ‘Come on, Anna,’ he said. ‘Drink some wine.’ Anna pushed the glass away. She thought, I mustn’t eat or drink anything. These men will give me a drug. Then 1 will fall asleep. Sam called the waiter. ‘Bring some dinner,’ he said. ‘Bring some good, hot food.’ The waiter came with the food. Bubs put some of the food on a plate and gave it to Anna. It looked good and smelt delicious. Anna forgot about drugs and began to eat. She ate quickly and finished everything. She put her spoon down. The men were looking at her. They laughed. Anna was very frightened again. ‘Come on, Anna,’ said Sam. ‘You’re tired. You must go to bed now. ’ He took her arm. ‘Lock her door, Sam,’ said Tino. ‘There are bad men in Polona. You must keep her safe.’ Bubs laughed. ‘Goodnight, Anna, he said Sam took Anna upstairs and into a bedroom. Her heart was beating fast. ‘Goodnight, Anna,’ said Sam. He smiled at her. ‘Don’t worry. You are safe here.’ Anna did not say anything. Sam seemed kind. But she remembered the newspaper. Sam was dangerous and his friends looked dangerous too. She must escape, Sam went out of the room and shut the door. He locked it and went downstairs. Anna sat on the bed and cried. Downstairs, the men drank and played cards. Anna heard their voices. They were laughing. After a long time, she fell asleep. Anna woke late. The sun was shining. She looked out of the window. The waiter was sitting outside in the street. He was smoking a cigarette and reading a newspaper. Anna looked round the room. It was dirty. There was some old paper on the floor. In one corner, there was a small table with some things on it. Anna had an idea. There was a biro on the table, She took the biro and picked up a piece of paper from the floor. She wrote: She threw the note out of the window. The waiter picked it up. He read the note. He looked up and saw her. He smiled at her and went into the hotel. Anna heard voices outside her room. Somebody unlocked the door. The waiter came in. There was somebody on the stairs behind him. It’s a policeman! thought Anna. He’s brought a policeman. She ran forward. It was Sam, He was holding her note in his hand, ’Good afternoon, Anna,’ said Sam. ’You’ve slept very late. You must be hungry. Come and have some food. We’re going soon.’ The waiter smiled at Sam. Anna understood. The waiter did not want to help her. He and Sam were friends. Anna went downstairs with Sam and They gave her some food, but she was not hungry. She did not eat or drink anything. Sam went outside into the street. Anna heard voices. Sam was talking to a man. What were they planning? Sam came inside again. ‘Come on, Anna, we must go now,’ he said. A taxi was waiting outside. Anna and Sam got in. ‘Where are we going? Anna asked. Sam looked at her. Til take you to your aunt later, he said. ‘First, I have an important job to do. Sam smiled. The smile twisted his face. He looked very ugly. Soon the taxi stopped. Sam and Anna got out. They were outside a big building. There was a notice outside Anna understood now. Sam was a boxer. ‘Dangerous fighter’ meant ‘good boxer’. Sam was not a criminal. Anna followed Sam into the building. It was a very big hall. There were seats on all sides. In the middle was the boxing ring. Tino and Bubs were waiting for them. ‘Stay here, Anna,’ said Sam. ‘Tino and Bubs will look after you. I must go now.’ Tino and Bubs shook Sam’s hand. 'Good luck, Sam,’ said Bubs. ‘You’ll win all right,’ said Tino. Anna smiled at Sam for the first time. ‘Good luck, Sam,’ she said. Tino and Bubs took Anna to a seat beside the ring. Tino sat on one side of her and Bubsoin the other. Anna sat quietly and waited. The two men talked excitedly. ‘Sam’s going to win,’ said Tino. ‘Of course he’ll win,' said Bubs. ‘He’s the best fighter in the country.’ Anna listened. Sam was famous! ‘Everybody wants him to win, said Tino. ‘Everybody likes him.’ ‘That’s right,’ said Bubs. 'Sam’s a great boxer, and he’s a good man, too.’ ‘1 know a story about Sam,’ said Tino. ‘One night he was asleep in bed. He heard shouts in the street and he looked outside. A house was on fire. He ran outside. There was a child in the burning house. He went inside and saved the child. But he was badly hurt. His face was burned and he got a bad scar.' ‘Poor Sam,’ said Bubs, ‘That’s why he’s so ugly!’ They both laughed. Anna was listening quietly. She now understood everything. She was safe with Sam. She felt sorry for him. ‘Is the fight going to start soon?’ she asked Tino. ‘Yes, of course,’ said Tino. ‘It will start very soon.’ The hall was full of people now. Boys were selling cigarettes and sweets. Everybody was laughing and joking. The referee was waiting in the ring. The audience was excited now. ‘Sam! Sam! We want Sam!' they shouted. Sam climbed into the ring. He was wearing short trousers and big boxing gloves. He raised both hands in the air. The crowd was clapping. ‘Sam! Sam! Sam!* they shouted. The other fighter climbed into the ring. He was very big and strong. ‘Here comes Danny,’ said Tino. ‘He’s a very good fighter.’ Anna was worried. ‘Don’t you worry, Anna,’ said Bubs. ‘Sam’s the best fighter in the country.’ The referee called the two boxers to the centre of the ring. He spoke to them quietly for a few moments. Then Sam and Danny shook hands. The two fighters went back to their corners and waited. A bell rang and the fight began. Danny was younger than Sam, but he was a good fighter. He moved fast. He tried to hit Sam, but Sam jumped away every time. Sam’s arms were long. He moved very quickly. He hit Danny hard, many times. Anna was very excited. Her hands held the seat tightly. It was a long fight. Sam moved quickly. He hit Danny often, but Danny did not fall down. Sam was getting tired. He was moving more slowly. Anna was worried. The crowd was shouting, ‘Sam! Sam!’ Anna shouted, ‘Sam! Sam! Come on Sam! Watch out!’ Tino and Bubs were shouting too. Danny hit Sam’s face hard. Blood came out of Sam’s nose and one of his eyes was nearly closed. But Sam did not stop. He ran forward and hit Danny with all his strength. Danny fell over and lay still. The referee started to count. ‘One . .. Two .. . Three ... Four .. Danny did not move. ‘Five . .. Six ... Seven . . .' Danny tried to get up. He could not. ‘Eight... Nine . . . Ten.’ Danny lay still. The fight was over. Sam was the winner. Anna was laughing and clapping. ‘Well done, Sam! Well done, Sam,’ she shouted. Nobody heard her. Everybody was shouting, ‘Sam! We want Sam! We want Sam!’' Tino and Bubs took Anna to the dressing-room. Sam was resting. ‘Hello, Sam, said Anna. ‘You were great.’ Sam was surprised, ‘Hello, Anna,’ he said. ‘You’re different now. You didn’t talk to me before.’ Tm sorry, Sam,* said Anna. ‘I was frightened ‘I know,’ said Sam. Tm big and ugly, and you were frightened. But I’m not a criminal, Anna.’ Tm sorry, Sam,’ Anna said again. ‘I was wrong. I’m not frightened now.’ Sam was pleased. ‘Come on, Anna,’ he said. ‘We’ll go to Naira now. Your aunt is waiting for you.’ Anna said goodbye to Tino and Bubs. She got into a taxi with Sam. It was a long way to Naira and Anna asked Sam many questions. They talked, and talked, and talked. They reached Naira at night. It was dark. Sam knew Naira. He quickly found Anna’s aunt’s house. They knocked on the door. The door Anna’s aunt was standing in the doorway. She was crying. ‘Oh Anna, Anna,* she said. ‘Thank God! You are here at last.’ Then she saw Sam. He looked terrible. His face was cut and bruised after the fight. ‘Anna!’ she said. ‘Who is this man?’ ‘Auntie,’ Anna said. ‘Don’t be angry. This is Sam. I fell asleep on the train. I passed Naira Station. Sam helped me. He took me to a hotel. He brought me to Naira in a taxi.’ Anna's aunt looked at Sam again. ‘Wait a minute,’ she said. She ran inside. She came back with a newspaper. J Sam’s photograph was on the back page. ‘Are you Sam the boxer?’ she asked. ‘Yes,! am,’ said Sam. Anna’s aunt was pleased. Sam was famous. He was a great man. Everybody knew him. ‘Come in, Sam,’ she said. 'Please sit down. Will you have some tea?’ Anna sat in the room with her aunt and Sam. She did not say anything. She felt very happy. Anna’s aunt asked Sam many questions. She laughed a lot. She liked him. It was getting very late. ‘I must go now, Anna,’ said Sam. ‘Can I come and see you again?’ ‘Yes, Sam,’ said Anna. She smiled at him. - Learn English Through Story Island for Sale By Anne Collins Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ There are many islands in the sea near Scotland. This story is about one of these islands. The name of the island is Lana. Lana isn’t big, but it’s very beautiful. It’s very quiet, too. There are no houses or roads or cars on Lana. But there’s a castle. The castle is very old. A young Scotsman lives in the castle. The Scotsman’s name is Duncan McTavish. Duncan lives in the castle with his dog, Jock. Duncan is very happy on his island. He likes going for walks with Jock. He likes swimming and fishing in his little boat. There are many big rooms in Duncan’s castle. They have a lot of old things in them — pictures and heavy tables, chairs and beds. In winter the castle is very cold and dark. Duncan puts on a lot of electric lights in all the rooms. One Monday morning in April, Duncan gets a letter. ‘What’s this?’ he asks. He opens the letter. It’s from the electricity company. Duncan reads, Electricity from October to March: £5,000. ‘Oh,’ Duncan says. ‘I haven’t got £5,000. What can I do?’ He’s very unhappy. ‘I can do only one thing: sell my island and my castle.’ Duncan telephones a man in London. The man’s name is Mr. Moneybags. Mr. Moneybags sells houses and castles. ‘I want to sell my island and my castle,’ Duncan says. ‘OK,’ Mr. Moneybags says. Two days later, he telephones Duncan. ‘Leaping Larry wants to buy your island,’ he says. ‘Leaping ... who?’ Duncan asks. ‘Leaping Larry. You know - the famous American rock star. He wants to buy your island for his girlfriend.’ ‘A rock star,’ Duncan says. ‘Oh.’ ‘He wants to see the island tomorrow afternoon,’ Mr. Moneybags says. ‘Is that OK?’ ‘Er ... yes,’ Duncan says. ‘Yes, of course.’ Leaping Larry and his girlfriend are coming to the island by helicopter. They’re very late. Duncan and Jock wait a long time. Then the helicopter arrives. A tall man with long dark hair gets down from it. He’s about forty-five years old. There’s a girl with him. She’s about twenty and has long yellow hair. There’s a small animal with her. The animal has long white hair. ‘Hi,’ the man says. ‘I’m Leaping Larry. And this is my girlfriend, Roxanne.’ ‘Hi,’ Roxanne says. ‘This is my dog, Bobo.’ Larry looks at the castle. ‘Look at that old castle, Roxanne,’ he says. ‘Don’t you love it, honey?’ Roxanne doesn’t smile. It’s only an old castle. Leaping Larry and Roxanne go into the castle. It’s very dark. Leaping Larry can’t see. He falls down. ‘Where are the lights?’ he asks. ‘I’m sorry,’ Duncan says. ‘There isn’t any light. The company stopped my electricity this morning.’ ‘I want some hot food,’ Roxanne says. ‘I’m sorry,’ Duncan says, ‘but I can’t make hot food. I haven’t got any electricity. But there is some cold food.’ ‘Cold food!’ Roxanne says. ‘No, thank you! I’m going to bed. But first I want a hot bath. And Bobo wants a bath, too.’ ‘I’m very sorry,’ Duncan says. ‘But there’s no hot water.’ ‘No lights! No food! No hot water!’ Roxanne says. ‘I don’t like this place!’ ‘Now, honey ...’ Leaping Larry says. ‘Don’t call me “honey”!’ Roxanne says. ‘Let’s go, Bobo!’ Roxanne and Bobo go to bed. Larry and Duncan eat cold food and talk. Jock watches them. Suddenly Roxanne screams. Duncan, Larry and Jock run to her room. Roxanne is in bed with Bobo. ‘Honey, what’s wrong?’ Larry asks. ‘There was a noise in the room,’ Roxanne says. ‘What was it?’ Duncan starts to smile. ‘Why are you smiling?’ Roxanne says. She’s very angry. ‘Look at Jock,’ Duncan says. Jock is under the bed. He has a mouse in his mouth. ‘A mouse!’ Roxanne says. She screams again. In the morning, Duncan and Leaping Larry are waiting. Roxanne and Bobo are late. They get up at eleven o’clock. ‘Good morning,’ Duncan says. Roxanne doesn’t answer. She says to Larry, ‘Larry, I don’t like this place. I want to go home.’ ‘But, honey ...’ Larry says. ‘Don’t call me “honey”!’ Roxanne says. ‘This castle is old, dark and very cold. There’s no electricity, no food and no hot water. And I don’t like it. Do you understand?’ ‘Listen, honey,’ Larry says. ‘We can build a big new house here. Our friends from California can come and stay.’ Duncan looks at Jock. Jock looks at Duncan. ‘Build a big new house!’ they think. ‘Oh, no!’ Leaping Larry says, ‘We want to see the island.’ ‘OK,’ Duncan says. ‘We can go in my boat.’ Duncan, Larry and Roxanne get into Duncan’s boat. Jock gets in, too. Bobo is with Roxanne. It’s a beautiful day, but Roxanne isn’t happy. ‘What do you do all day?’ she asks Duncan. ‘I go for walks,’ Duncan says. ‘Sometimes I swim. And sometimes I catch fish.’ ‘Oh,’ Roxanne says. ‘That isn’t very interesting.’ ‘Listen, honey,’ Larry says. ‘We can make the island interesting. I know people with film companies. They can come here and make films. Hundreds of films!’ Duncan looks at Jock. Jock looks at Duncan. ‘Film companies!’ they think. ‘Oh, no!’ Duncan is very unhappy. He doesn’t want to sell his island and his castle to Larry. He doesn’t want film companies or Larry’s friends on the island. But what can Duncan do? The electricity company wants £5,000. He has no money. He can’t stay in his castle. Duncan, Larry and Roxanne are all sitting in Duncan’s boat. Jock and Bobo are with them. Suddenly, Jock sees a rabbit on the island. Jock loves catching rabbits. He jumps into the sea and starts to swim to the island. Bobo thinks, ‘This is interesting!’ And he jumps in, too. ‘Bobo is in the water!’ Roxanne screams. ‘Jump into the sea, Larry! Get Bobo!’ But Larry doesn’t move. ‘Why are you waiting?’ Roxanne says. ‘Jump in!’ ‘But, honey,’ Larry says, ‘I can’t swim.’ ‘Can’t swim!’ Roxanne says. She is very angry. ‘Look!’ Duncan says. ‘Bobo is OK. He’s having a good time.’ Bobo is swimming in the water with Jock. But Roxanne is very angry with Larry. ‘You don’t love me!’ she says. ‘And you don’t love me,’ Larry says. ‘You only love Bobo.’ ‘You’re right,’ Roxanne says. She stands in the boat and starts to hit Larry. ‘Don’t do that!’ Duncan says. The boat moves. Roxanne falls into the water. She starts to scream. Roxanne is making a lot of noise. Jock sees Roxanne in the water with Bobo. What are they doing? Arc they playing a new game? Jock wants to play, too. He swims to Bobo. ‘Go away!’ Roxanne screams. Duncan brings the boat near Roxanne. Roxanne gets into the boat. Then Bobo gets into the boat. Roxanne is very angry. ‘Take me back to California ... NOW!’ she says to Larry. ♦ Later Larry, Roxanne and Bobo get into their helicopter. ‘Goodbye,’ Duncan says. Larry and Roxanne don’t answer. The helicopter goes away. Duncan smiles at Jock. He’s very happy. ‘Leaping Larry isn’t going to buy our island,’ he says. ‘That’s good!’ But Duncan has big money problems. Leaping Larry doesn’t want to buy the island. But where can Duncan get £5,000 for the electricity company? Later, Duncan telephones Mr. Moneybags in London. ‘Leaping Larry telephoned me,’ Mr. Moneybags says. ‘He doesn’t like your island. He doesn’t want to buy it. And I’m not going to sell it for you now. It’s your problem. Goodbye.’ Duncan goes for a long walk with Jock. He’s very unhappy. They walk to a place across the island. And there Duncan sees a girl. She’s looking at the sea and she’s painting a picture. Near her is a small boat. ‘Good afternoon,’ Duncan says. The girl looks at Duncan. She’s beautiful. He likes her. ‘Who are you?’ she asks. ‘What do you want?’ ‘I’m Duncan McTavish,’ Duncan says. ‘I live here. Lana is my island. And this is my dog, Jock.’ Jock looks at the girl. He likes her, too. ‘Lana is your island?’ the girl says. ‘Oh. I’m Jean Stewart. I’m a teacher. I work in a school across the sea. Today is a holiday and the school is closed. I came here in my boat. I wanted to paint your island. The light is very good and the colours are very beautiful. I can paint good pictures here.’ Duncan looks at Jean’s picture. ‘Yes,’ he says. ‘Your picture is very good.’ ‘Thank you, ’Jean says. Duncan and Jean talk for a long time. ‘Where do you live?’ Jean asks. ‘I live in a castle,’ Duncan says. ‘Come and see it.’ Duncan, Jean and Jock go to the castle. ‘Your castle is beautiful, ’Jean says. ‘Yes,’ Duncan says. ‘But it’s very cold and dark. There’s no electricity. I have no money. I love my island very much. But I can’t make money from it.’ Jean looks at the castle. Suddenly she says, ‘Yes, you can!’ ‘How?’ Duncan asks. ‘People can come here for holidays, ’Jean says. ‘They can paint pictures of your island. I can teach them. And they can stay in your castle. We can make a lot of money!’ Duncan looks at Jock. Jock looks at Duncan. ‘You’re right!’ Duncan says. Now McTavish Painting Holidays are very famous. Every year many visitors come to the island. They stay in the castle. They go for walks and paint beautiful pictures. They take their pictures back to their homes. The rooms in the castle aren’t cold and dark now. Duncan and Jean have a lot of money. There is no problem with the electricity company. And Jean makes very good food. The visitors are very happy. Duncan and Jean are married now. They have two children - a boy and a girl. Jock loves playing with the children. Duncan often sits in his little boat. Sometimes he catches a fish, but usually he sleeps. He’s a happy man. - Learn English Through Story A Little Princess By Frances Hodgson Burnett Retold by Jennifer Bassett Illustrated by Gwen Tourret Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS Introduction Sara Crewe is a very rich little girl. She first comes to England when she is seven, and her father takes her to Miss Minchin’s school in London. Then he goes back to his work in India. Sara is very sad at first, but she soon makes friends at school. But on her eleventh birthday, something terrible happens, and now Sara has no family, no home, and not a penny in the world… (word count 5.840) Chapter one School in England One cold winter day a little girl and her father arrived in London. Sara Crewe was seven years old, and she had long black hair and green eyes. She sat in the cab next to her father and looked out of the window at the tall houses and the dark sky. ‘What are you thinking about, Sara?’ Mr. Crewe asked. ‘You are very quiet.’ He put his arm round his daughter. “What are you thinking about, Sara? “Mr. Crewe asked. ‘I’m thinking about our house in India,’ said Sara. ‘And the hot sun and the blue sky. I don’t think I like England very much, Father.’ ‘Yes, it’s very different from India,’ her father said. ‘But you must go to school in London, and I must go back to India and work.’ ‘Yes, Father, I know,’ said Sara. ‘But I want to be with you. Please come to school with me! I can help you with your lessons.’ Mr. Crewe smiled, but he was not happy. He loved his little Sara very much, and he did not want to be without her. Sara’s mother was dead, and Sara was his only child. Father and daughter were very good friends. Soon they arrived at Miss Minchin’s School for Girls and went into the big house. Miss Minchin was a tall woman in a black dress. She looked at Sara, and then gave a very big smile. ‘What a beautiful child!’ she said to Mr. Crewe. Sara stood quietly and watched Miss Minchin. ‘Why does she say that?’ she thought. ‘I am not beautiful, so why does she say it?’ Sara was not beautiful, but her father was rich. And Miss Minchin liked girls with rich fathers, because it was good for the school (and good for Miss Minchin, too). ‘Sara is a good girl,’ Mr. Crewe said to Miss Minchin. ‘Her mother was French, so she speaks French well, she loves books, and she reads all the time. But she must play with the other girls and make new friends, too.’ Miss Minchin was a tall woman in a black dress. ‘Of course,’ said Miss Minchin. She smiled again. ‘Sara is going to be very happy here, Mr. Crewe.’ Mr. Crewe stayed in London for a week. He and Sara went to the shops, and he bought many beautiful, expensive dresses for his daughter. He bought books, and flowers for her room, and a big doll with beautiful dresses, too. Miss Minchin smiled, but she said to her sister Amelia: ‘All that money on dresses for a child of seven! She looks like a little princess, not a schoolgirl!’ Mr. Crewe bought many expensive dresses for his daughter. When Mr. Crewe left London, he was very sad. Sara was very sad too, but she did not cry. She sat in her room and thought about her father on the ship back to India, ‘Father wants me to be happy,’ she said to her new doll. ‘I love him very much and I want to be a good daughter, so I must be happy.’ It was a very big, and very beautiful doll, but of course it could not answer. Sara soon made new friends in the school. Some little rich girls are not very nice children – they think they are important because they have money and lots of expensive things. But Sara was different. She liked beautiful dresses and dolls, but she was more interested in people, and books, and telling stories. The stories were all about kings and queens and princesses. She was very good at telling stories. She was a c1ever child, and the other girls loved to listen to her. The stories were all about kings and queens and princesses and wonderful countries across the sea. ‘How do you think of all those things?’ asked her best friend, Ermengarde. ‘I have all these pictures in my head,’ said Sara. ‘So it’s easy to tell stories about them.’ Poor Ermengarde was not eleven. She could never remember any of her school lessons, and Miss Minchin was always angry with her. Sara often helped Ermengarde with her lessons. ‘Listen, Ermie,’ she said. ‘You remember that French king, Louis the Sixteenth? Well, this is a story about him. One day in 1792 … ‘And so Ermengarde learnt her lessons through Sara’s stories, and she loved her friend very much. But not everybody was Sara’s friend. Lavinia was an older girl. Before Sara came, Lavinia was the richest and the most important girl in the school. But Sara’s father was richer than Lavinia’s father. So now Sara was more important than Lavinia, and Lavinia did not like that. ‘Oh Sara is so clever!’ Lavinia often said. ‘Sara is so, good at French! Her dresses are so beautiful, and she can sing so well! And she is so rich! Of course, Miss Minchin likes her best!’ Sara did not answer when Lavinia said these things. Sometimes, it was not easy, but Sara was a kind, friendly girl, and she did not like to be angry with anyone. Now Sara was important, and Lavinia did not like that. Chapter two The diamond mines And so three years went by. Sara’s father wrote ~ to her often, and Sara wrote loving little letters back to him. One day a very exciting letter arrived. Everybody in the school talked about it for days. My friend,’ wrote Mr. Crewe, has some mines in northern India, and a month ago his workers found diamonds there. There are thousands of diamonds in ‘There are thousands of diamonds in these mines … ‘these mines, but it is expensive work to get them out. My friend needs my help. So, little missus (this was Mr. Crewe’s special name for Sara), I am putting all my money into my friend’s diamond mines, and one day you and I are going to be very rich … ‘ “There are thousands of diamonds in these mines...” Sara was not interested in money, but a story about diamond mines in India was exciting. Nearly everybody was very pleased for Sara, but not Lavinia, of course. ‘Huh!’ she said. ‘My mother has a diamond. Lots of people have diamonds. What’s so interesting about diamond mines?’ ‘But there are thousands of diamonds in these mines,’ said Ermengarde. ‘Perhaps millions of them!’ Lavinia laughed. ‘ls Sara going to wear diamonds in her hair at breakfast, then? Or is it “Princess Sara” now?’ Sara’s face went red. She looked at Lavinia angrily, but said quietly, ‘Some people call me “princess”. I know that. But princesses don’t get angry or say unkind things, so I’m not going to say anything to you, Lavinia.’ ‘To me, you are a princess,’ Ermengarde said to Sara later. ‘And you always look like a princess, in your beautiful dresses.’ Sara was a princess to another girl, too. This was Becky. She was a servant in Miss Minchin’s school, and she was only fourteen years old, but she worked all day and sometimes half the night. She carried things upstairs and downstairs, she cleaned the floors, she made the fires, and she was always tired and hungry and dirty. She and Sara had very different lives. Becky cleaned the floors, made the fires… But one day Sara came into her bedroom, and there was Becky, sleeping in a chair. ‘Oh, you poor thing!’ Sara said. Then Becky opened her eyes and saw Sara. She got up at once. ‘Oh, Miss!’ she said. I’m very sorry, Miss! I just sat down for a minute and-‘ ‘Don’t be afraid,’ said Sara. She gave Becky a friendly smile. ‘You were tired. That’s all.’ There was Becky, sleeping in a chair. ‘Are you – are you going to tell Miss Minchin?’ asked Becky. She began to move to the door. ‘Of course not,’ said Sara. ‘Please don’t run away. Sit down again for a minute. You look so tired.’ ‘Oh, Miss, 1 can’t!’ Becky said. ‘You’re very kind, Miss, but Miss Minchin-‘ ‘Please,’ said Sara. She took Becky’s hand. ‘You’re only a little girl, like me. Let’s be friends.’ And so, Becky sat down again, and soon she and Sara were friends. Nobody knew about this, of course. Rich little girls at Miss Minchin’s school did not make friends with servant-girls, and it was a wonderful thing for Becky. Nearly every day she and Sara met in Sara’s bedroom, just for five or ten minutes. Becky was always hungry, and Sara often bought nice things for her to eat. They sat and talked, and sometimes Sara told Becky some of her stories. Becky loved that. ‘Oh, Miss,’ she said. ‘You tell them so beautifully! Sometimes I like your stories better than things to eat.’ And after those visits to Sara’s room, Becky always felt better – not so tired, and not so hungry. Some months later Sara had her eleventh birthday. Lessons stopped for the afternoon and there was a big party for all the girls in the school. Everybody at Sara’s party was very happy. ‘This party is expensive for us,’ Miss Minchin said to her sister Amelia. ‘But it looks good for the school.’ That afternoon there was a visitor to the school- Miss Minchin’s lawyer. He went with Miss Minchin into her office, and they closed the door. ln the schoolroom next door there was a lot of noise from Sara’s party. Everybody in there was very happy. But in the office Miss Minchin was not happy. She looked at the lawyer angrily. ‘What are you saying? Mr Crewe has no money? What about the diamond mines?’ ‘There are no diamond mines,’ said the lawyer. ‘Well, there are mines, but there are no diamonds in them.’ ‘But Mr. Crewe’s good friend- ‘began Miss Minchin. ‘Mr. Crewe’s good friend,’ said the lawyer, ‘ran away with all Mr Crewe’s money. Ralph Crewe was ill with a fever, and when he heard about this, he got worse. A week later he was dead.’ ‘Dead!’ cried Miss Minchin. ‘But what about his daughter Sara? And this expensive birthday party?’ ‘Sara Crewe has no money,’ said the lawyer. ‘Not a penny in the world, Miss Minchin. Not a penny.’ ‘She must leave my school at once,’ Miss Minchin said angrily. ‘She must go this afternoon!’ ‘Where?’ said the lawyer. ‘Out into the streets? An eleven-year-old girl? That’s not going to look very good for your school, Miss Minchin.’ Miss Minchin’s face went red. ‘You can’t put her out in the streets,’ said the lawyer. He stood up. ‘But perhaps she can work for you.’ The lawyer left, and Miss Minchin called her sister Amelia. ‘Bring Sara Crewe here at once,’ she said. Two minutes later Sara, in her beautiful blue party dress, stood in front of Miss Minchin. ‘Have you a black dress, Sara?’ Miss Minchin said coldly. ‘Yes, Miss Minchin,’ said Sara. ‘But it’s very small.’ “She must leave my school at once,” Miss Minchin said. ‘Go and put it on at once,’ said Miss Minchin. ‘Your father is dead. There were no diamond mines, and your father’s friend ran away with all his money. You have nothing. Not a penny. But I am going to be very kind to you. You can stay in my house, but now you must be a servant and work for your bread. You can sleep in a servant’s room upstairs, next to Becky’s room.’ Chapter three The new servant-girl That evening, in the little attic room, Sara sat on the bed in her old black dress. She did not cry, but her face was white and she did not move or speak for hours. Late at night the door opened quietly, and Becky looked in. Her eyes were red from crying. ‘Oh, Miss,’ she said. ‘All the servants are talking about it, I’m so sorryso sorry!’ She looked at Sara’s white face, and began to cry again. Then she ran to Sara, and took her hand. At last Sara moved. Slowly, she turned her head and looked at Becky. ‘Oh, Becky,’ she said. And that was all. Becky ran to Sara, and took her hand. That first night in the attic was very long. Sara did not sleep. ‘Father is dead,’ she whispered, again and again. ‘Father is dead. I’m never going to see him again.’ The next morning Sara’s new life began. She learnt to clean floors and to make fires. She ran upstairs and downstairs, and she worked in the kitchen. “Run down to the shops and get me some apples.” The cook was a big woman with a red, angry face. ‘So,’ she said, ‘the little rich girl with the diamond mines is now a servant, eh?’ She looked at Sara. ‘Now, I’m making apple pies this morning. Run down to the shops and get me some apples. And be quick!’ So Sara ran to the shops and carried a big bag of apples back to the house. Then she cleaned the kitchen floor and carried hot water up to all the bedrooms. She worked every day, from early in the morning to late at night. She helped in the school, too. ‘You speak French well,’ Miss Minchin said to her coldly. ‘So, you can teach French to the younger children. But you’re only a servant. Don’t forget that.’ The first months of Sara’s new life were very hard. She was always tired and hungry, but she never cried. At night, in her little attic, she thought about her father, dead in India all those miles away. ‘I must be brave,’ she said. ‘Father always wanted me to be brave. And I have a bed to sleep in, and something to eat every day. Lots of people don’t have that.’ At first Sara’s only friend was Becky. Every day Becky came into Sara’s room. They did not talk much, but it helped Sara a lot to see Becky’s friendly, smiling face. The girls in the school were sorry for Sara, but Sara was a servant now, and they could not be friendly with a servant. Lavinia, of course, was pleased. ‘1 never liked Sara Crewe,’ she told her friends. ‘And 1 was right about the diamonds – there weren’t any!’ Ermengarde was very unhappy. When she saw Sara in the school, Sara walked past her and did not speak. Poor Ermengarde loved Sara and wanted to be friendly, but she was not clever, and she did not understand. “What are you doing here? said Sara One morning, very early, she got quietly out of bed, went upstairs to the attics, and opened Sara’s door. ‘Ermengarde!’ Sara said. ‘What are you doing here?’ Ermengarde began to cry. ‘Oh, Sara, please tell me. What is the matter? Why don’t you like me now?’ ‘I do like you,’ Sara said. ‘Of course, I do. But, you see, everything is different now. Miss Minchin does not want to talk to the girls. Most of them don’t want to talk to me. And I thought, perhaps, you didn’t want to … ‘ ‘But I’m your friend!’ cried Ermengarde. ‘I’m always going to be your friend – and nobody can stop me!’ Sara took Ermengarde’s hands. She suddenly felt very happy. Perhaps she cried a little, too. Who can say? There was only one chair, so the two friends sat on the bed. Ermengarde looked round the attic. ‘Oh, Sara, how can you live in this room? It’s so cold and – and dirty.’ “Watch,” Sara said. ‘It’s not so bad,’ said Sara. ‘And I’ve got lots of friends. There’s Becky in the next room, and – come and see.’ She moved the table under the window, and then she and Ermengarde stood on it and looked out of the window, over the roofs of the houses. In her pocket Sara had some small pieces of bread. She put her hand out of the window, with the bread on it. ‘Watch,’ she said. After a minute a little brown bird flew down to Sara’s hand and began to eat the bread. Then a second bird came, and a third, and a fourth. ‘Oh Sara, how wonderful!’ said Ermengarde. ‘They know I’m their friend,’ said Sara, ‘so they’re not afraid. Sometimes they come into the room, too.’ Ermengarde looked across the roof to the next attic window. ‘Who lives in that house?’ she asked. ‘Nobody,’ said Sara sadly. ‘So I never see anybody at that window, and I can only talk to the birds. ‘But one night, two or three weeks later, Becky came into Sara’s room. She was very excited. ‘Oooh, Miss!’ she said. ‘An Indian gentleman is moving into the house next door. Well, he’s English, but he lived in India for years and years. And now he’s going to live next door. He’s very rich, and he’s ill, something bad happened to him, but I don’t know what.’ Sara laughed. ‘How do you know all this?’ she said. ‘Well, Miss, you know the Carmichael family across the street?’ Becky said. ‘I’m friendly with their kitchen- girl, and she told me. Mr. Carmichael is the Indian gentleman’s lawyer, so they know all about him.’ Chapter four Ram Dass and the monkey Every morning, when Sara gave the birds their bread, she looked across to the attic window next door. But nobody opened it. Nobody called out ‘Good morning!’ across the roof, or gave Sara a friendly smile. ‘Perhaps the Indian gentleman’s servants all sleep downstairs,’ she thought sadly. Her life was very lonely now. She saw Becky every day, of course, but they did not have much time for talking. The cook and the other servants were not friendly. Sometimes, at night, Ermengarde came up to Sara’s room, but it was not easy for her to come often. Then one evening, Sara was in her attic when she heard a noise on the roof. She looked up – and there at the open window was a small monkey. ‘Oh, you dear little thing!’ cried Sara. At once, the monkey jumped down and began to run round the room. Sara laughed. She got up on the table and looked out of her window, and at the next window she saw a face – the smiling face of an Indian lascar. Ram Dass thanked Sara again. ‘Oh,’ cried Sara, ‘have you got a monkey? He’s in my room.’ The lascar’s name was Ram Dass, and yes, it was his monkey. He gave Sara a big smile. ‘I’m so sorry,’ he said. ‘Can I come and get him?’ ‘Oh yes, please,’ said Sara. ‘I think he’s afraid of me. And he runs so fast! But can you get across the roof?’ Yes, Ram Dass could, and a minute later he was in Sara’s room. Soon the monkey jumped into his arms, and Ram Dass thanked Sara again and again. Then he went away, across the roof, back into the house next door. Sara went to the shops five or six times a day, and when she walked past the house next door, she often thought about the Indian gentleman. She felt sorry for him. He had no wife or family, and the doctor visited the house every day. Mr Carmichael the lawyer often visited, too, and sometimes the Carmichael children went with him. Sara was pleased about that. ‘It’s nice to see friendly faces when you are ill,’ she thought. The Indian gentleman thought that, too. He liked children very much, but he was a very unhappy man. Mr Carmichael was his friend, and he talked to him a lot. But they talked about only one thing. ‘I must find the child,’ said the Indian gentleman (his name was Mr Carrisford). ‘I must find her and take care of her. But where is she? Here 1 am, with all this money from the diamond mines – and half of it is Ralph Crewe’s money. Oh, Carmichael, why did I leave my friend and run away when things looked bad? Why?’ ‘You ran away because you were ill with a fever,’ said Mr Carmichael. ‘It nearly killed you, remember?’ ‘And it did kill poor Ralph,’ said Mr Carrisford. ‘He put all his money into the mines because I was his friend. But at first, we didn’t find any diamonds, and all Ralph’s money was gone. I was afraid to tell him, so I ran away. And later, when we did find diamonds, Ralph was dead.’ He laughed, angrily. ‘What a brave friend I was!” “I must find the child and take care of her.? It’s not easy to be brave,’ Mr Carmichael said quietly, when you’re ill with a fever.’ Mr Carrisford looked into the fire. ‘Ram Dass tells me,’ he said, ‘about a little servant-girl next door. The monkey ran away, and Ram Dass went across the roof to get him back from her room. The poor child sleeps in a cold, dirty attic, and works about sixteen hours a day. Is Ralph’s daughter living like that? 1 can’t stop thinking about it.’ ‘We’re going to find her one day,’ said Mr Carmichael. ‘But how?’ said Mr Carrisford. He put his head in his hands. ‘1 never saw her. I don’t know her name! Ralph always called her his “Little Missus”. We talked all the time about the mines. He never told me the name of her schoo1. Her mother was French, so did he take her to a school in France? Or was it in England?’ ‘Well, we know there was a child at a school in Paris,’ said Mr Carmichael, ‘with the name of Carew or Crewe. Her father died suddenly, and a Russian family took her away with them, because she was a friend of their daughter. Perhaps this girl is Ralph Crewe’s child. Next week I’m going to Moscow to look for her.’ ‘I want to go with you, but I’m not well,’ said Mr Carrisford. ‘1 must find her, Carmichae1. I must. Every night, in my dreams, I see Ralph Crewe’s face, and he says: “Tom, Tom, where is my Little Missus?” And I have no answer for him.’ Mr Carrisford took his friend’s hand. ‘Help me to find her. Help me.’ ‘Winter came, with its short, dark days, and the attic rooms were very cold. There were no fires for servant- girls, and often Sara and Becky could not sleep because of the cold. Sara was taller now, and her old black dress was very short. Her shoes were old, and she had no warm coat for the winter weather. She was thin, too. She did not get very much to eat, and she was always hungry. She carried big baskets of shopping through the rain and the snow. One day she found a sixpence in the snow, and she bought some hot new bread with it. Then she saw a child by the door of the shop. The child had no shoes and no coat, and her thin face was blue with cold. ‘She is hungrier than I am,’ thought Sara. And she gave her hot new bread to the child. When she got back to the school, Miss Minchin was angry. ‘Cook is waiting for you, Sara. Why are you late?’ “She is hungrier than I am,” thought Sara. ‘I can’t walk quickly through the snow,’ said Sara. ‘My shoes are old, Miss Minchin, and my feet get very cold.’ Miss Minchin did not like to hear this. ‘Don’t speak to me like that!’ she said. ‘1 am kind to you, I’m giving you a home, but you never say, “thank you” to me.’ Sara looked at her. ‘You are not kind,’ she said quietly. ‘And this is not a home.’ ‘Go to your room at once!’ said Miss Minchin. “Oh, here’s Princess Sara,” Lavinia said. On the stairs Sara met Lavinia. Lavinia looked at her and gave a little laugh. ‘Oh, here’s Princess Sara,’ she said, ‘in her old dress and her dirty shoes!’ In the attic, Sara sat down on the chair by her table. ‘I must be brave,’ she whispered. ‘A princess is always brave, so 1 must be, too. But it’s not easy.’ She put her head down on her arms. ‘Oh, Father, do you remember your Little Missus? Can you see me now?’ And in the house next door Mr Carrisford sat by a warm fire. Moscow is a long way from London, and he could only wait, but he thought about Ralph Crewe’s child every day. He thought about other children, too. ‘Ram Dass,’ he said. ‘How is that poor little servant- girl next door? Can we do something for her?’ ‘I see her in the street every day,’ said Ram Dass. ‘ln the rain, in the snow. She looks thin and hungry. But we can help her. I can easily get in through her attic window. Listen … ‘ And he talked for some minutes. Mr Carrisford smiled. ‘Yes,’ he said to Ram Dass. ‘Yes, I like it. Let’s do it.’ Chapter five The magic One night, a week later, Ermengarde got quietly out of bed and went upstairs to the attic. Sara was not there, so Ermengarde sat on the bed and waited. At ten o’clock Sara came slowly up the stairs and into the room. Ermengarde looked at her. ‘Oh, Sara!’ she cried. ‘Are you ill? Your face is white, and you look so tired!’ ‘It was a hard day, Ermie,’ said Sara. She sat down.’ Miss Minchin was angry with Cook. Then Cook was angry with us. Becky and I had no dinner and no tea.’ ‘Does that happen often?’ said Ermengarde unhappily. ‘You never told me. Are you – are you hungry now?’ Sara looked at her. ‘Yes,’ she whispered. ‘Yes, I am. l would like to eat that table. l would like to eat you.’ Ermengarde jumped up. ‘Sara,’ she cried. ‘I had a box of things from home today. There is a big cake in it. I am going to get it – now! You and Becky can eat it all!’ Soon, Ermengarde was back. The three girls sat on Sara’s bed, and there were some happy smiles when Ermengarde opened her box and took out the cake. ‘Oh, Miss, look at that!’ said Becky. ‘You are kind, Ermie,’ said Sara. She laughed. ‘It’s magic, you know. When things are very bad, something nice always happens. Here we are, having a party!’ Ermengarde gave Sara and Becky some cake, and they began to eat. Suddenly, they stopped. There was a noise of feet on the stairs. They listened. ‘Oh no!’ whispered Becky. ‘It’s – it’s Miss Minchin!’ ‘Yes,’ said Sara. Her face was white again. Then the door opened, and Miss Minchin came in. ‘So, Lavinia was right,’ she said angrily. ‘Tea with Princess Sara! Becky, get back to your attic at once! “Tea with Princess Sara!” Miss Minchin said angrily. ” Oh, please, Miss Minchin!’ cried Ermengarde. ‘It was my cake, from home. We’re only having a party.’ ‘Go back to your room, Ermengarde,’ Miss Minchin said coldly, ‘and take these things with you. And tomorrow’ – she looked at Sara – ‘there’s no breakfast, no dinner, and no tea for you. Remember that!’ Soon the attics were quiet again. Tired and hungry, the two servant-girls went ta sleep. But after an hour or two Sara opened her eyes. Was it a noise from the window perhaps? ‘Something is different,’ Sara whispered. ‘What is it?’ She sat up in bed and looked round the room. She looked again and again, and her eyes were very big. The room was different – very different. There was a wonderful hot fire. There were new, warm blankets on her bed, and beautiful pictures on the walls. Sara slowly got out of bed. ‘Is this a dream?’ she said. ‘Where did all these things come from?’ She put out her hand ta the fire. ‘No, it’s not a dream. The fire is hot – I can feel it. And oh! Look at the table!’ There was a red cloth on the table, and cups and plates. There was hot tea, and wonderful things to eat – hot meat pies and sandwiches and cake, oranges and apples. Sara ran ta Becky’s room. ‘Becky,’ she whispered. ‘Come quickly. The magic is here again. Come and look.’ When Becky saw the room, she could not speak at first. Then she said, ‘Oh, Miss! What is it? How did all these things get here?’ On the table there were wonderful things to eat. ‘I don’t know,’ said Sara. ‘It’s magic. At first, I thought it was a dream, but it is not. Look – these pies are hot. Let’s eat them. Hot meat pies aren’t a dream!’ They sat down by the fire and ate and drank. ‘Oh, those pies were good, Miss!’ Becky said. ‘And the tea and the cake. I don’t understand magic, but I like it!’ Sara looked round the room. ‘Oh, Becky, look! There are some books, too. I didn’t see them before.’ She ran to look at them, and opened the top book. ‘There’s some writing here! Listen. It says, “To the little girl in the attic. From a friend.” Oh, Becky!’ Sara closed the book and looked up. I have a friend, Becky,’ she said slowly. ‘Someone is my friend. ‘ The next morning Becky met Sara in the kitchen. ‘Oh, Miss,’ she whispered. ‘Was the magic there this morning? Or did it go away in the night?’ ‘No, it’s still there,’ Sara whispered back. ‘I ate some cold meat pie for breakfast. And the fire was still warm!’ Becky laughed happily. ‘Oh my! Oh my!’ she said. Miss Minchin could not understand it. When Sara came into the schoolroom, she looked happy and Well. Miss Minchin wanted to see a white, unhappy face, and eyes red from crying. ‘How can that child smile?’ she thought angrily. But of course, she did not know about the magic. And the magic did not go away. Every evening, when Sara went up to bed, she found new things in the attic. There were more warm blankets, for her and for Becky. There were pictures on the walls; there were books, new shoes, and a winter coat. And best of all, there was always a fire, and a wonderful hot dinner on the table. “Was the magic there this morning?” Becky whispered. ‘But where does it all come from?’ Becky said one night when they sat by the fire. ‘Who does it, Miss?’ ‘A friend does it,’ Sara said. ‘A kind, wonderful friend. But he doesn’t want us to know his name.’ They began to look at one of the new books, and then Becky looked up. ‘Oh, Miss,’ she whispered. ‘There’s something at the window. What is it?’ Sara got up to look. ‘It’s the monkey!’ she said. ‘The monkey from next door.’ She opened the window, and the monkey jumped down into her arms. ‘Oh, you poor little thing,’ Sara said. ‘You’re so cold!’ Becky was very interested. ‘I never saw a monkey before,’ she said. ‘He’s not very beautiful, Miss! What are you going to do with him?’ ‘It’s very late now,’ said Sara. ‘He can stay in my room tonight, and I can take him home in the morning.’ “Oh, you poor little thing,” Sara said. Chapter Six Lost and found The next morning, the first visitor to the house next door was Mr. Carmichael, back from Russia. But when he came into the house, his face was sad. Mr. Carrisford knew the answer at once. ‘You didn’t find her,’ he said. ‘I found her,’ Mr. Carmichael said. ‘But it was the wrong girl. Her name is Emily Carew, and she’s much younger than Ralph Crewe’s daughter. I’m very sorry.’ ‘We must begin again,’ said Mr. Carrisford unhappily. ‘But where? It’s two years now. Two years!’ ‘Well, she isn’t at a school in Paris. We know that,’ Mr. Carmichael said. ‘Let’s look at schools in England now.’ ‘Yes,’ said Mr. Carrisford. ‘Yes, we can begin in London. There’s a school next door, Carmichael.’ Perhaps it was the magic again, but at that moment Ram Dass came quietly into the room. ‘The little servant-girl from the attic is here,’ he said to Mr. Carrisford. ‘With the monkey. He ran away again last night to her room. Would you like to see her?’ ‘Yes,’ said Mr. Carrisford. ‘Yes, I would. Bring her in.’ And so Sara came into the room and stood in front of the Indian gentleman. She smiled at him. ‘Your monkey came to my room last night,’ she said, ‘and I took him in because it was so cold.’ Mr. Carrisford watched her face with interest. ‘That was kind of you,’ he said. Sara looked at Ram Dass by the door. ‘Shall I give him to the lascar?’ she asked. “I was born in India,” Sara said. ‘How do you know he is a lascar?’ said Mr. Carrisford. ‘Oh, I know lascars,’ Sara said. ‘I was born in India.’ Mr. Carrisford sat up suddenly. ‘In India?’ he said. ‘But you’re a servant at the school next door.’ ‘Yes, I am now,’ said Sara. ‘But I wasn’t at first.’ The Indian gentleman looked at Mr. Carmichael, and then Mr. Carmichael looked at Sara. ‘What do you mean by “at first”, child?’ he asked. ‘When Father first took me to the school.’ ‘Where is your father?’ said Mr. Carmichael. ‘He died,’ said Sara, very quietly. ‘His friend ran away with all his money, and there was no money for me. There was nobody to take care of me. So, Miss Minchin put me in the attic and said I must work for my bread.’ The Indian gentleman moved in his chair. ‘What – what was your father’s name?’ he said. ‘Tell me.’ Sara looked at him sadly. ‘Ralph Crewe,’ she said. ‘He died in India from a fever, two years ago.’ Mr. Carrisford’s face went very white. ‘Carmichael,’ he, whispered, “it is the child – the child!” That was an exciting day for many people. At first poor Sara did not understand. But Mr. Carmichael talked to her quietly and told her everything – the true story about her father’s friend and the diamond mines, and the two ars of looking for Ralph Crewe’s daughter. “And all the time I was in the house next door.” ‘And all the time,’ she said later to Mr Carrisford, when they sat by his fire, ‘I was in the house next door.’ Tom Carrisford took her hand. ‘Yes,’ he said. ‘And you’re never going back there. Your home is with me now. I’m going to take care of Ralph’s Little Missus.’ Sara laughed, happily. ‘And you were the friend, too. All those beautiful things in my attic came from you – you and Ram Dass. Becky and I thought it was magic!’ The Indian gentleman smiled at her. ‘We were sorry for you,’ he said. ‘Ram Dass can move very quietly, and he carried the things across the roof when you were out. I couldn’t find Ralph’s daughter, but I wanted to help somebody. And then Ram Dass told me about this sad, lonely little servant-girl in the attic next door.’ And so the story ended happily for everybody – but not for Miss Minchin. Sara was very rich now, and Miss Minchin wanted her to come back to the school. She came to see Mr. Carrisford, but he said some very angry things to her, and she went away with a red face. Becky came to live in Mr Carrisford’s house, too. She was Sara’s servant, and she was very happy. She had a warm room, nice dresses, and good things to eat every day. And she loved Sara very much. Ermengarde often came to visit Sara, and Sara helped her with her school lessons again. Ermengarde was not clever, but she was a true friend. On that first day in the Indian gentleman’s house, Sara wrote a letter to her, and Ermengarde carried the letter into the schoolroom. ‘There were diamond mines,’ she told Lavinia and the other girls. ‘There were! There were millions and millions of diamonds in the mines, and half of them are Sara’s. And they were her diamonds all the time when he was cold and hungry in the attic. And she was a princess then, and she’s a princess now!’ - Learn English Through Story The Adventures of Tom Sawyer By MARK TWAIN Retold by Nick Bullard Illustrated by Paul Fisher Johnson Level 1 Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS Introduction Tom Sawyer likes adventures. When other people are sleeping in their beds, Tom Sawyer is climbing out of his bedroom window to meet his friends. He and Joe Harper and Huckleberry Finn have an exciting life. They look for ghosts, they dig for treasure, and they take a boat down the Mississippi to Jackson's Island -to swim, and fish, and sleep under the stars. But Tom's adventures can be dangerous, too. One night in the graveyard he and Huck Finn see three men. Who are they? And what are they doing in the graveyard, in the middle of the night? Then the boys see that one of the men is Injun Joe . . . Tom and Huck never forget that night. They are afraid of Injun Joe - and they are right to be afraid. Because Injun Joe is very quick with a knife . . . Chapter one Tom and his friends 'Tom! Tom! Where are you?' No answer. 'Where is that boy? When I find him, I'm going to...' Aunt Polly looked under the bed. Then she opened the door and looked out into the garden. 'Tom!' She heard something behind her. A small boy ran past, but Aunt Polly put out her hand and stopped him. 'Ah, there you are! And what's that in your pocket?' 'Nothing, Aunt Polly.' Aunt Polly put out her hand and stopped him. 'Nothing! It's an apple! I can see it. Now listen, Tom. Those apples are not for you, and I —' 'Oh, Aunt Polly! Quick - look behind you!' So Aunt Polly looked, and Tom was out of the house in a second. She laughed quietly. 'I never learn. I love that Tom, my dead sister's child, but he isn't an easy boy for an old lady. Well, it's Saturday tomorrow and there's no school, but it isn't going to be a holiday for Tom. Oh no! He's going to work tomorrow!' Saturday was a beautiful day. It was summer and the sun was hot and there were flowers in all the gardens. It was a day for everybody to be happy. Tom was the unhappiest boy in the village. Tom came out of his house with a brush and a big pot of white paint in his hand. He looked at the fence; it was three meters high and thirty meters long. He put his brush in the paint and painted some of the fence. He did it again. Then he stopped and looked at the fence, put down his brush and sat down. There were hours of work in front of him and he was the unhappiest boy in the village. After ten minutes Tom had an idea, a wonderful idea. He took up the brush again and began work. He saw his friend Joe Harper in the street, but he didn't look at him. Joe had an apple in his hand. He came up to Tom and looked at the fence. 'I am sorry, Tom.' Tom said nothing. The paint brush moved up and down. 'Working for your aunt?' said Joe. 'I'm going down to the river. I'm sorry you can't come with me.' Tom put down his brush. 'You call this work?' he said. Tainting a fence?' said joe. 'Of course it's work!' 'Perhaps it is and perhaps it isn't. But I like it,' said Tom. 'I can go to the river any day. I can't paint a fence very often.' Joe watched Tom for about five minutes. Tom painted very slowly and carefully. He often stopped, moved back from the fence and looked at his work with a smile. Joe began to get very interested, and said: 'Tom, can I paint a little?' Tom thought for a second. I'm sorry, Joe. You see, my aunt wants me to do it because I'm good at painting. My brother Sid wanted to paint, too, but she said no.' 'Oh, please, Tom, just a little. I'm good at painting, too. Hey, do you want some of my apple?' 'No, Joe, I can't —' 'OK, you can have all my apple!' Tom gave Joe the brush. He did not smile, but for the first time that day he was a very happy boy. He sat down and ate Joe's apple. Tom was the richest boy in St Petersburg. More friends came to laugh at Tom, but soon they all wanted to paint, too. By the afternoon Tom had three balls, an old knife, a cat with one eye, an old blue bottle, and a lot of other exciting things. He was the richest boy in St Petersburg, and the fence - all thirty meters of it -was a beautiful white. He went back to the house. 'Aunt Polly! Can I go and play now?' Aunt Polly came out of the house to look. When she saw the beautiful white fence, she was very pleased. She took Tom into the house and gave him an apple. 'Well, you can go and play. But don't come home late.' Tom quickly took a second apple and ran off. On Monday morning Tom didn't want to go to school, but Aunt Polly got him out of bed, and then out of the house. In the street near the school he met his friend Huckleberry Finn. Huck had no mother, and his father drank whiskey all the time, so Huck lived in the streets. He didn't go to school, he was always dirty, and he never had a new shirt. But he was happy. The mothers, of St Petersburg didn't like Huck, but Tom and his friends did. 'Hello, Huck!' said Tom. 'What have you got there?' 'A dead cat.' 'What're you going to do with it?' asked Tom. I’m going to take it to the graveyard tonight,' Huck said. 'At midnight. A dead cat can call ghosts out of their graves.' I never heard that,' said Tom. 'Is it true?' 'Well, I don't know,' said Huck. 'Old Mrs. Hopkins told me. Come with me, and see. Or are you afraid of ghosts?' 'Of course not!' said Tom. 'Come and meow for me at my window at eleven o'clock.' After this, Tom was late for school, and the teacher looked at him angrily. 'Thomas Sawyer, why are you late again?' he said. Tom began to speak, and then stopped. There was a new girl in the schoolroom - a beautiful girl with blue eyes and long yellow hair. Tom looked and looked. Oh, how beautiful she was! And in two seconds Tom was in love! He must sit next to her. But how? In the girls' half of the room there was only one empty chair, and it was next to the new girl. Tom thought quickly, and then looked at the teacher. 'I stopped to talk with Huckleberry Tinn!' he said. The teacher was very, very angry. Boys were often late for school. That was bad, but talking with Huckleberry Finn was worse, much worse! The teacher took his stick, and two minutes later Tom's trousers were very-hot and the teacher's arm was very tired. 'Now, Tom Sawyer, you go and sit with the girls!' Some of the children laughed. Tom walked to the chair next to the new girl, sat down and opened his book. The other children began to work again. After ten minutes, the girl looked up. There was an apple on the table in front of her. She put it back on Tom's half of the table. A minute later the apple was in front of her again. Now it stayed. Next, Tom drew a picture of a house and put it in front of her. 'That's nice,' the girl said. 'Now draw a man.' Tom drew a man next to the house. The man was taller than the house, and he had very big hands and very long legs. But the girl liked him. 'Can you draw me now?' she asked. Tom drew a girl next to the man. 'You draw beautifully. I can't draw pictures.' 'I can teach you,' said Tom. 'After school.' 'Oh, please!' 'What's your name?' Tom asked. 'Becky. Becky Thatcher.' Just then Tom felt a hand on his head. It was the teacher. He took Tom by the ear and moved him back to his chair in the boys' half of the room. 'You draw beautifully,' said the girl. Chapter two In the graveyard That night Tom went to bed at half past nine. He waited for Huck's meow, and at eleven o'clock it came. He climbed quietly out of the bedroom window, and then he and Huck walked out of the village with the dead cat. The graveyard was on a hill, about a mile from St Petersburg. When the boys got there, they put the dead cat on a grave, and sat down behind some trees. They watched, and waited. It was very dark, and very quiet. 'Do you see that new grave there?' whispered Huck. That's Hoss Williams' grave, He died last week.' 'Perhaps he can hear us,' Tom whispered back. 'Do you think he can, Huck?' 'I don't know, but I—' 'Sh!' 'Oh, Tom, what is it?' 'Sh!' whispered Tom. 'I can see something. Look!' Huck moved nearer to Tom. 'Ghosts!' he said. 'Three of them! They're coming here, Tom! Oh, let's go home!' 'They can't see us,' Tom whispered. 'Not here.' 'Ghosts can see through trees,' said Huck unhappily. 'They can see through everything!' 'They're not ghosts.' The ghosts moved quietly through the graveyard and came nearer to the trees. Huck and Tom watched, very afraid. Then, after a minute, Huck said: 'Tom! They're not ghosts. That's Muff Potter.' 'So it is. And that's Injun Joe. And the other man is Doctor Robinson. What are they doing here?' 'They're grave robbers, Tom! They're going to rob a grave! My father told me about it. The doctor wants a dead body, you see. He cuts it up because he wants to learn about —' 'Sh!' said Tom. They're getting near.' The three men stopped at Hoss Williams' grave and Injun Joe and Muff Potter began to dig. Ten minutes later the grave was open. 'Now, doctor,' said Muff Potter. 'You want us to take the body to your house? That's five dollars more.' 'No!' said the doctor. 'I gave you the money this morning. I'm not giving you anymore!' 'Now you listen to me, doctor!' said Injun Joe. I want that money! Do you remember a day five years ago? I came to your house and asked for something to eat. And you gave me nothing. Nothing! So give me that money!' He took the doctor's arm, but suddenly the doctor hit him, and Injun Joe fell to the ground. 'Don't hit my friend!' cried Muff Potter. He jumped on the doctor and the two men began to fight. It all happened very quickly, and the two boys watched with open mouths. Injun Joe got up. He had Muff Potter's knife in his hand now, and he moved behind the doctor. Then the doctor hit Muff Potter on the head. Muff fell to the ground, and at the same moment the knife in Injun Joe's hand went into the doctor's back. The doctor fell to the ground, on top of Muff Potter, and he did not move again. Injun Joe moved behind the doctor. The two boys could watch no more. Very quietly, they moved away from the trees, and then ran out of the graveyard and back to the village. Injun Joe stood by Hoss Williams' grave and looked down at the two men. Then he put the knife into Muff Potter's hand and sat down. Three - four - five minutes went by. Potter moved a little and opened his eyes. 'What - what happened, Joe?' he asked. 'This is bad, Muff,' said Joe. 'Why did you kill him?' Muff looked at the doctor's dead body, then at the knife in his hand. 'Me? Did I kill him?' His face went white, and the knife fell from his hand. 'It's the whiskey, Joe! I never fight with knives usually. Oh, why did I drink all that whiskey tonight? I don't remember anything!' 'It's OK, Muff,' said Joe. I'm not going to tell anyone. You get away quickly. Go on - go now!' Muff Potter got up and ran away. Joe watched him for a minute, then he carefully put the knife next to the doctor's body. Then he, too, left the graveyard. The next day the Sheriffs men found the doctor's body in the graveyard - and Muff Potter's knife. That night Muff came to the graveyard to get his knife. But the Sheriff's men were there, and they took Muff to Sr Petersburg's little jail. And their Muff sat for four weeks, and waited for his trial. And their Muff waited for his trial. Tom and Huck could not forget that night in the graveyard. They were very unhappy, and very afraid. 'What're we going to do?' said Tom. 'Muff Potter didn't kill the doctor - Injun Joe did. We saw him!' 'I know,' Huck said. 'But what can we do? We can't tell anyone. I'm afraid of Injun Joe. He's dangerous. And he's a killer. Do you want a knife in your back?' 'Yes, I'm afraid of him, too,' Tom said. He thought for a minute. 'I'm sorry for Muff Potter, but you're right, Huck. We can't tell anyone about Injun Joe.' Chapter three On Jackson’s Island The summer holidays came, and there was no school. Tom didn't want to think about Muff Potter and Injun Joe, but it wasn't easy. At night, when he was in bed, he saw Injun Joe's face in the dark, and he couldn't sleep. But he couldn't talk to anyone about it. One hot summer's day he and Joe Harper were down by the Mississippi River. They sat and watched the boats, and fished and talked. 'Let's get away from here!' said Tom, suddenly. 'Let's go and do something exciting somewhere.' 'OK,' said Joe. 'But what? And where?' I know,' Tom said. 'Let's run away. Let's go and live on Jackson's Island. We can sleep out, under the trees.' They watched the boats, and fished and talked. Jackson's Island was in the Mississippi, three miles south of St Petersburg. Nobody lived there. 'Let's ask Huck Finn, too,' said Tom. 'But don't tell your mother or father or anyone. Go home and get some tilings to eat, and meet me here at midnight.' They cooked some of the meat over the fire. So that night three boys in a small boat went down the river to Jackson's Island. They had some bread and some meat, and Huck had his pipe, too. When they got there, they carried everything on to the island and made a fire, under a big old tree. Then they cooked some of the meat over the fire, and oh, that meat was good - the best dinner in the world! Soon, they stopped talking, their eyes closed, and they slept. The three boys ran down to the river to swim. The next morning Tom woke up with the sun on his head and a smile on his face. Then Huck and joe woke up, and the three boys ran down to the river to swim. After that, they fished, and soon they had about six big fish for their breakfast. They cooked the fish on their fire and ate them all. They were very hungry. 'That,' said Joe happily, 'was a wonderful breakfast!' After breakfast they walked through the island, swam some more, talked, fished, and swam again. They came back to their fire in the afternoon. Suddenly, Torn looked up and said, 'Listen. Can you hear boats?' They listened, and then ran across the island to look down the river. There were twenty or more boats on the water. Every boat in St Petersburg was out. 'What are they doing?' asked Joe. 'They're looking for a dead body, I think,' said Huck. 'They did that last summer when Bill Turner fell in the river and drowned.' 'Who's dead, do you think?' asked Joe. The boys watched the boats. Suddenly, Tom cried, T know who's dead! It's us! They're looking for us!' This was wonderful. Tom looked at his friends. 'We're famous!' he said. 'Everybody in St Petersburg is talking about us. And they all feel sorry for us!' Night came, and the boys went to sleep. But Tom did not sleep, and when morning came, he wasn't there! 'Huck, where's Tom?' cried Joe. 'I don't know,' Huck began, 'but — Look! There he is. lie's swimming across to the island now. Hey, Tom!' At breakfast Tom told his story. I went home last night,' he said, 'and listened at the window. Joe, your mother was there, too, and she and Aunt Polly cried and cried. I heard some very interesting things. On Sunday there's going to be a big funeral at the church - for us! And listen - I've got a wonderful idea.' Huck and Joe listened and laughed, and yes, it was a wonderful idea. That night the boys cooked some more fish, and after dinner Huck got out his pipe and began to smoke. 'Can we smoke, too?' asked Tom. 'I want to learn.' So Huck made pipes for Tom and Joe, and the three boys sat and smoked. 'Hey, I Х\Ы smoking,' said Tom. 'It's easy!' 'It's nothing!' said Joe. 'I'm going to smoke every day.' But after ten minutes Tom and Joe got quieter and quieter and their faces went an interesting colour. I'm going for a little walk now,' said Tom. He stood up, carefully, and walked away into the trees. 'Me too,' said Joe, quickly. The two boys came back an hour later. But they didn't smoke their pipes again... On Sunday morning there were no happy faces in St Petersburg. Aunt Polly and Joe's mother and father were in the church, and all the boys' friends. The minister said some very nice things about the three boys, and the boys' families cried and cried. Everybody cried. And little Becky Thatcher did not stop crying for one second. There was a small noise at the back of the church, but at first nobody heard it. Then the minister looked up -and suddenly stopped speaking. Everybody turned to look. Their mouths opened, and stayed open. And into the church came the three dead boys - Tom first, Joe next, and then Huck. And into the church came the three dead boys. For a second nobody moved or spoke, and then the noise began. Aunt Polly and joe's mother ran to the boys, and took them in their arms. Aunt Polly cried, and laughed, and cried again. 'Oh, Tom!' she said. 'You're a bad boy, but I love you!' Suddenly, the minister called out, 'Oh, happy days! Sing, good people of St Petersburg! Sing and be happy!' And everybody sang, and smiled, and laughed for a long time. It was St Petersburg's happiest funeral. The weeks went by, and the judge came to St Petersburg. On the day before Muff Potter's trial, Huck and Tom met in the street near Tom's house. Huck was unhappy. 'Tom, you didn't tell anyone about - you know?' 'No, I didn't. But Huck, what about Muff? People are saying he's the killer. And he's going to die!' 'But we can't tell anyone about Injun Joe,' said Huck. I don't want to die, too! Do you?' No, Tom didn't want to die. But he couldn't forget Muff Potter's face in the jail - old, tired, and unhappy. And Injun Joe was a free man. It wasn't right. That night Tom came home late, and very excited. He could not sleep for two or three hours. The next morning all the village was at Muff Potter's trial. Injun Joe was there, too. Muff waited, a tired old man with a dirty face. The judge began the trial. Questions, questions, questions. Answers, answers, answers. And the answers were all bad for Muff Potter. 'Yes, I found the knife in the graveyard, next to Doctor Robinson's body.' 'Yes, that's Muff Potter's knife. He always carries it,' 'Yes, I saw Muff Potter in the village that afternoon. He had the knife with him then.' Questions, questions, questions ... Muff Potter began to look more and more unhappy. Then the judge said: 'Call Thomas Sawyer!' St Petersburg sat up. What did young Tom Sawyer know? Everybody looked at him, and waited. 'Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, at the hour of midnight?' In the graveyard.' 'Why?' 'I went there to see ghosts. With a - a - dead cat.' St Petersburg laughed, and the judge looked angry. 'And where were you in the graveyard, Thomas?' 'Behind the trees near Hoss Williams' grave.' Injun Joe's face suddenly went white. 'Now, my boy,' said the judge. 'Tell us your story.' And so Tom told his story, and St Petersburg sat and listened to him with open mouths. '. . . and then Muff Potter fell, and Injun Joe jumped with the knife and — ' Crash! Injun joe jumped through the window, and was out and away in a second. St Petersburg loved Tom for a week. But Tom was not happy. Injun Joe was not in jail, and he was a dangerous man. Tom slept badly for weeks. The slow summer days went by. Injun Joe did not come back to St Petersburg, and Tom began to forget. Chapter four Treasure There is a time in every boy's life when he wants to go and dig for treasure. And that time came for Tom. So, one hot summer's day, he went to find Huck. Huck liked the idea of treasure. 'Where are we going to dig?' he asked. An old dead tree is best.' 'Who puts the treasure under old trees?' 'Robbers,' said Tom. 'And then they go away, or they forget to come back for the treasure.' 'There's a dead tree on Cardiff Hill,' said Huck. 'Let's go there! I've got an old pick and shovel.' It was three miles to the old tree, and the boys arrived tired and hot. They dug for an hour or two, but they didn't find any treasure. Then they stopped, and Tom looked down at an old house at the foot of the hill. I've got an oldpick and shovel.' 'Hey, look!' he said. 'Nobody lives in that old house. Let's go there. Old houses are always good for treasure.' 'Good for ghosts, too!' said Huck. They took the pick and shovel with them, went down the hill, and into the old house. They looked in all the rooms downstairs, and then went upstairs. But there was no treasure, and no ghosts. Then they heard a noise. 'Sh!' said Tom, suddenly. 'What's that?' 'Ghosts!' whispered Huck. There were holes in the floor, and through them the boys could see into the rooms downstairs. 'No,' Tom whispered. 'It's two men. One is the old Spaniard. He came to live in the village last week. I don't know the other man. Sh! Let's listen to them.' The two men sat down on the floor. The Spaniard had a green hat and long white hair; the other man was small and dark. He took out a bag and began to open it. 'It's hot in here,' the Spaniard said. He took off his green hat - and then he took off his long white hair! 'Tom!' Huck whispered upstairs. 'That's Injun Joe!' 'We took six hundred and fifty dollars when we robbed that house,' said the second man. He took some money out of the bag. 'We can take fifty dollars with us now. What are we going to do with the six hundred?' 'Leave it here,' said Injun Joe. 'We can come back and get it next week. Here, give me the bag.' He walked across the room to the fireplace, moved two big stones from the floor, and began to dig with his knife. Upstairs, the two boys watched excitedly. Treasure! Six hundred dollars of wonderful treasure! Injun Joe stopped digging. 'Hello, what's this?' he said. 'There's something here. It's an old box.' The two men got the box out and opened it. 'It's money!' said Injun Joe's friend. Injun Joe put his hand into the box. 'There are thousands of dollars here!' he said, and the two men looked at the money with happy smiles. 'But who—' began Injun Joe's friend. 'Don't ask,' Injun Joe said. 'It's our money now.' 'We can't take it with us today,' said his friend. 'What can we do with it? Put it back under the floor?' 'Yes,' said Injun Joe. (Happy faces upstairs.) 'No! (Very unhappy faces upstairs.) Let's put it under the cross - nobody goes there. We can take it there tonight.' When night came, the two men carried all the money away. The boys did not go after them because they were afraid of Injun Joe. But they wanted very much to find that ‘cross'. For a week the two boys thought and thought about the treasure. It was 'under the cross', but where was the cross? In St Petersburg the boys watched the 'Spaniard' carefully, but they didn't see a cross, and they didn't find the treasure. Chapter five In the Cave The next Saturday was Becky Thatcher's birthday, and all Becky's friends were very excited. It's going to be a wonderful day,' Becky told Tom. 'We're going to have a picnic by the river, and after that, we can visit McDougal's Cave.' So in the morning, a big boat took Becky, Tom, and all their friends down the river. There were some older children on the boat too, but all the mothers and fathers stayed at home. Picnics are better without them! And it was a very happy, noisy picnic. It was a very happy, noisy picnic. After the picnic, the children took out their candles, and ran up the hill! to the cave. The mouth of the cave was dark, and some of the children were afraid at first. But caves are exciting, so in the end everybody went in. McDougal's Cave was very, very big, with hundreds of tunnels and rooms. The tunnels went up, down, and into the hill for. miles. You could walk for days in McDougal's Cave. Nobody knew all the cave, but many people knew the tunnels near the door. You could play all day in these tunnels. Torn, of course, knew them well. For hours the children walked and ran through the cave, up and down the tunnels, in and out of the rooms. In the evening they came out, and walked down the hill to the boat, tired but happy. When the boat arrived back in St Petersburg, it was dark. Huck Finn saw the boat, but he did not know about the picnic. He did not go to birthday picnics, of course, because the mothers of St Petersburg did not like him. But tonight Huck was only interested in treasure - Injun Joe's treasure. Injun Joe was in an old building by the river, and Huck waited in the street near the building. 'Perhaps,' he thought, 'Injun Joe's cross is in there. And the box of money. I must wait and watch. I can tell Tom about it tomorrow.' But Injun Joe didn't come out. At midnight it began to tain, and Huck waited all night in the cold street. In the morning he could not move and he could not speak. He felt cold, then hot, then cold, then hot again. Mrs. Douglas, a woman from the church, found him in the street. She took him to her home and put him to bed. And there he stayed for two weeks. He was very ill, and so he did not hear about Tom and Becky. But on Sunday morning all St Petersburg knew about Tom and Becky - because they were not on the boat when it came back to the village. Where were they? Were they lost in the cave? And were they alive, or dead? At first Tom and Becky played with their friends in the cave. Then Tom wanted to go down a new tunnel, and Becky went with him. Sometimes Tom put a mark on the tunnel wall. They walked and talked, and went into a second tunnel, then a third. Sometimes Tom put a mark with candle smoke on the tunnel wall - he wanted to find the mouth of the cave again! Then they came out of the tunnels into a big room. There were hundreds of bats in this room, - and the candles woke them up. Tom took Becky's hand and they ran into the nearest tunnel, with the bats behind them. But one bat hit Becky's candle and it went out. The children ran and ran through the tunnels, and at last they got away from the bats. They stopped and sat down. Suddenly, it was very, very quiet, 'Where are we now, Tom?' Becky whispered, afraid. 'I don't know,' said Tom. 'I think it's time to go back. But we can't go through that big room because of the bats. Let's so down this tunnel.' They went down one tunnel, then a second, a third, a fourth... Then they wanted to find the big room with the bats again, but they couldn't. Becky began to cry: 'Tom, we can't get out. We're lost, Tom, we're lost!' They walked, and walked. When they were tired, they sat down; Then they got up and walked again. Time went by. Was it day, or night? They didn't know. Then Tom wanted to find water. They had nothing to eat, and they must have something to drink. They found a very small river and sat down next to it. 'Becky,' said Tom. 'We must stay here. Near this river. This is our last candle, and ...' He did not finish, but Becky understood. 'Tom?' 'Yes, Becky.' 'Are they going to come and look for us?' 'Of course! When the boat gets to St Petersburg —' 'But how can they find us, in these hundreds of tunnels? Oh, Tom, Tom, we're going to die in here!' Becky began to cry again. Then the candle went out and the two children were in the dark. They sat for hours and hours. They slept a little, then woke up, then slept again. Was it Sunday now? Or Monday? Suddenly Tom sat up. 'Listen! Somebody's calling!' The two children listened. They heard it again, a little nearer. They called back; then they began to walk down the tunnel in the dark, with their hands on the wall. They stopped and listened again, but now they couldn't hear anything. Slowly, they went back to their river. They slept again, and woke up very, very hungry. 'Perhaps it's Tuesday now,' Tom thought. 'What can I do? I must do something? Then he had an idea. 'Becky, listen. I've got a long string in my pocket. I can go down some of the small tunnels and get back to you with the string. You wait here.' Slowly and carefully, Tom went down the first tunnel on his hands and knees. Then the tunnel wall on his right finished, and there was nothing. Tom put out his hand to feel the floor. And just then, away to his right, he saw a hand - a hand with a candle. At once Tom called out. 'Help!' he cried. The hand moved, and Tom saw an arm and a face. It was Injun Joe! Tom was very afraid, but Injun Joe was afraid too, and he quickly ran away down the tunnel. Tom went back to Becky, but he did not tell her about Injun Joe. Tom waited for an hour, then went into a different tunnel with his string. Then a third tunnel... It was Tuesday evening, and St Petersburg waited. Many of the villagers were in the cave, and they looked for the children day and night. But they heard nothing, saw nothing, and found nothing. Then, late that evening, there was a sudden noise in the streets. People began to run to the Thatchers' house. 'They're here! Becky and Tom are here!' Most of the village came to listen to Tom's story. 'It was in the sixth tunnel,' he told them. T went to the end of my string, and suddenly, I could see daylight! There was a little hole in the cave wall. I put my head out, and there was the river, right under my nose! I went back and got Becky, and we climbed out through the hole. Then we stopped a boat on the river. We were five miles from the mouth of the cave!' Tom was very tired after his three days in the cave, and he went to bed and stayed there for two days. He heard about Huck and went to see him on Sunday, and then every day. But Mrs. Douglas was always in the room. 'You can just say hello,' she told Tom. 'And then you must go. Huck is very ill, and he needs to sleep.' So Tom could not talk about anything exciting, and he could not tell Huck about Injun Joe. One day, about two weeks after the picnic, Tom was in Becky's house, and her father came in. 'Well, Tom,' Mr. Thatcher said. 'Would you like to go back to the cave again, one day?' I’m not afraid of that cave,’ said Tom. Mr. Thatcher laughed. 'There are a lot of people like you, Tom. But nobody's going into the cave again. There are big doors across the cave mouth now - and nobody can open them!' Tom's face went white. 'But Mr. Thatcher - Injun Joe's in that cave!' An hour later, fifty men were at the cave and they opened the doors. Injun Joe was on the ground, dead, his face to the door and his knife in his hand. Injun Joe was on the ground, dead. Chapter six Under the cross The day after Injun Joe's funeral, Huck was out of bed. He and Tom walked slowly out of the village. They had a good, long talk, and Huck heard all about the picnic, the cave, and Injun Joe. 'We're never going to find the money now,' said Huck. 'Huck,' said Tom. 'The money isn't in St Petersburg. It's in the cave - I know it is! Why was Injun Joe in the cave? Because he took the box of money there! Right?' Huck looked excited. 'Say that again, Tom!' 'The money's in the cave! And we can get to it easily. Let's go there now! I've got some candles and a long string. We can take a boat and put it back later.' Twenty minutes later the boys were in a boat on the Mississippi. They went eight miles down the river, and then Tom stopped by some small trees. 'Here we are!' he said. Tom's hole was just behind the trees. Tom took a candle and climbed in. Huck climbed in after him. 'Injun Joe never found this hole,' said Tom. 'Or he did find it and couldn't get through it. It's very small.' The boys went carefully through the tunnels with their string. Then Tom stopped. The boys went eight miles down the river. 'I saw Injun Joe about here,' he said. 'And look, Huck - there's the cross!' There was a big smoke cross on the tunnel wall. The boys looked up and down the tunnel, but there was no box of money. 'Injun joe said under the cross,' said Tom. 'Perhaps it's under the ground. Look, we can move these stones.' The boys took their knives and began to dig by the tunnel wall. Very soon, they found a second, smaller tunnel under the wall. They climbed down into it, and came into a small room. There was a bed, two whiskey bottles, some old shoes - and the box of money, When somebody finds treasure, everybody hears about it very quickly. The two boys carried the box through the village. And when they got to Aunt Polly's house, half the village was with them. Everybody went into the house. 'Oh, Tom, Tom!' cried Aunt Polly. 'What is it now? And what have you got there?' Tom put the box on the table and opened it. There were twelve thousand dollars in that box. And suddenly, Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn were the richest people in St Petersburg. There were twelve thousand dollars in that box. - Marcel and the Shakespeare Letters By Stephen Rabley Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Marcel is a French mouse. He's a detective and he lives in Paris. But Marcel doesn't live in Paris all year. Every November he visits London. His old friend - Henry - has a small flat there. Marcel loves London. The beautiful buildings... the big, black taxis... the museums and shops. He loves Paris, but he loves London too. This story is about one of Marcel's November holidays. It starts at three o'clock on a Tuesday afternoon. Marcel is walking from Knightsbridge station to Henry's flat. He has two heavy bags with him. Henry's address is 42 Old Wilton Street. Marcel looks at the numbers - 36 - 38 - 40. Yes, here it is. Number 42. He sees a sign. It says: 'Professor J. T. Barton'. Marcel looks at it and thinks, 'That's new.' Then he goes down to Henry's flat. Henry opens the door and smiles. 'Marcel!' he says. 'Come in, come in!' 'Hello, Henry,' Marcel says. 'How are you?' (His English is very good.) 'I'm very well. And you?' 'Yes, thanks.' 'Good, good.' Henry takes Marcel's coat. 'Now,' he says, 'let's have some tea.' The two friends sit in big chairs. They drink tea and talk. At five o'clock Marcel says, 'There's a new person in number 42. What's his name? Burton? Barnam?' 'Barton,' Henry says. 'Professor Barton. He's very, very clever. And that's not all. After tomorrow he's going to be famous, too!' 'Famous?!' Marcel looks at his English friend. 'Why?' 'It's a very interesting story,' Henry says. 'He has some letters. They were under the floor of an old woman's house in Oxford.' 'And...?' Marcel says. 'And they're from Shakespeare to his son,' Henry says. 'Shakespeare!' 'Yes.' Henry smiles. 'Shakespeare. The old lady telephoned Professor Barton, and the Professor visited her. They talked about the letters and she said, "I want to give them to the British Museum in London. Can you do that for me?"' 'And Professor Barton said yes?' 'That's right.' 'Where are the letters now?' Marcel asks. 'In the professor's flat. He's going to give them to the British Museum tomorrow morning at ten o'clock. A lot of journalists and TV people are going to be there.' Suddenly there's a big BANG! and then a long WHIZZZ! 'What's that noise?' Marcel asks. He goes to the window. Then he remembers. 'Oh - fireworks. Of course, it's the 5th of November - your "Guy Fawkes Day".' Then a man walks down the steps from 42 Old Wilton Street. Marcel looks at him. 'Is that Professor Barton?' he asks.'Yes,' Henry answers. 'He always goes to the cinema on Tuesday evenings.' 'Aha!' Marcel says. 'Why do you say "Aha!"?' Henry looks at his French friend. Then suddenly he understands. 'Oh, you want to look at the Shakespeare letters.' He smiles. 'OK. Why not?' After tea, the two mice visit Professor Barton's flat. There's a small hole near the front door. Henry stops in front of it. 'Here we are,' he says. 'Do you want to go in first?' 'No, no. After you,' Marcel says. At 5.55 they're in the professor's flat. It's very big, with a lot of old chairs and books. There are some beautiful pictures, too. 'Come with me,' Henry says. He walks across the floor. Then he starts to climb a very tall bookcase. Marcel is behind him. They go up and up and up for a long time. Then Marcel sits on Charles Dickens's book, Little Dorrit. He can hear a lot of fireworks in the street. 'BANG! BANG! BANG!' they go. 'WHEEE! POW! WHOOSH!' There's a small, white button in the bookcase. Henry smiles at Marcel, and presses it. Suddenly, some of the books start to move. 'Why are they moving?' Marcel says. Then he understands. 'Ah, I understand. There's a safe.' 'Yes,' Henry says. 'Now, you stay here. I'm going to open it.' He takes some blue paper from his jeans. Then he climbs down to the safe. There are some numbers on the paper. He starts to read them. '55 - 14 - 62 - 29 - 8. Yes, that's right.' After that, he puts his hands on the safe and moves the dial to the left. '55,' he says. Then he moves the dial to the right. '14.' Suddenly there's a very, very big BANG!!! 'Wow!' Marcel says. 'That was a big firework.' Henry doesn't stop. '62,' he says. '29. And...!' He moves the dial again.'... 8. There - that's it.' He smiles at Marcel and opens the safe. But then suddenly his mouth falls open. 'Oh no!' he says. 'What's wrong?' Marcel asks. 'They're not here,' Henry says. 'The Shakespeare letters. They're not here!' Marcel climbs down the bookcase and looks. His friend is right. The letters aren't in the safe, 'But that's not all.' There's a big hole at the back of the safe, and a lot of smoke, too. Marcel looks at Henry. Henry looks at Marcel. Then they climb into the safe. 'Look,' Marcel says. He can see a room in number 40 Old Wilton Street. He can see a person, too - a tall woman in a red dress. She's sitting at a table and talking on the telephone. 'Do you think...?' Henry starts. 'Ssshh,' Marcel says. The two mice sit and listen. 'That's right,' the woman says. 'I'm going to New York. Yes, this evening.' She writes on a notepad. 'Thank you.' She puts down the telephone. There's a bag on the bed in front of her. In it Marcel can see some letters. The woman closes the bag. After that, she walks to the door. She opens it, and then closes it behind her. Henry looks at Marcel in the hot, dark safe. 'What are we going to do?' he asks. 'That woman's got the letters. Let's telephone the police.' 'No, there isn't time,' Marcel says. 'Do you know her?' 'The woman? No, I don't.' 'Who usually lives in that flat?' 'Two old women, but they're on holiday in Spain. Oh Marcel, what are we going to do?' Marcel looks into the dark flat. 'Come with me,' he says. He climbs into the old women's flat. Henry is behind him. The two mice run across the floor. Then they climb up a table. On the table, there's a yellow light and a small, white notepad. Marcel looks at it under the light. 'What are you doing?' Henry asks. Marcel doesn't answer. Then he says, 'Aha! I was right. Can you see?' Henry smiles. 'Yes, I can. Not very well, but... it says, "Concorde - 7.20".' Marcel puts down the notepad and looks at his watch. It's six o'clock. Then he starts to run down the leg of the table. Henry runs down the leg of the table, too. 'Where are we going now?' he asks. 'Heathrow Airport, of course,' Marcel says. At 6.05 the two mice are in Old Wilton Street. It's dark and cold. They walk quickly to Knightsbridge station. There are a lot of fireworks. 'BANG!WHEEE! POP! WHOOSH!' Marcel watches them. Then he remembers the very big BANG!!! in the professor's flat. 'That was clever,' he thinks. 'Very, very clever.' There are hundreds of people at Knightsbridge station. Marcel and Henry run under their legs and bags. Marcel can hear a noise. 'Quick, Henry,' he says. 'A train's coming.' He's right. A train is coming into the station. A sign on the front of it says, 'Heathrow'. The doors open and the mice get on. Henry looks at Marcel in the hot, dark safe. 'What are we going to do?' he asks. 'That woman's got the letters. Let's telephone the police.' 'No, there isn't time,' Marcel says. 'Do you know her?' 'The woman? No, I don't.' 'Who usually lives in that flat?' 'Two old women, but they're on holiday in Spain. Oh Marcel, what are we going to do?' Marcel looks into the dark flat. 'Come with me,' he says. He climbs into the old women's flat. Henry is behind him. The two mice run across the floor. Then they climb up a table. On the table there's a yellow light and a small, white notepad. Marcel looks at it under the light. 'What are you doing?' Henry asks. Marcel doesn't answer. Then he says, 'Aha! I was right. Can you see?' Henry smiles. 'Yes, I can. Not very well, but... it says, "Concorde - 7.20".' Marcel puts down the notepad and looks at his watch. It's six o'clock. Then he starts to run down the leg of the table. Henry runs down the leg of the table, too. 'Where are we going now?' he asks. 'Heathrow Airport, of course,' Marcel says. At 6,05 the two mice are in Old Wilton Street. It's dark and cold. They walk quickly to Knightsbridge station. There are a lot of fireworks. 'BANG! WHEEE! POP! WHOOSH!' Marcel watches them. Then he remembers the very big BANG!!! In the professor's flat. 'That was clever,' he thinks. 'Very, very clever.' There are hundreds of people at Knightsbridge station. Marcel and Henry run under their legs and bags. Marcel can hear a noise. 'Quick, Henry,' he says. 'A train's coming.' He's right. A train is coming into the station. A sign on the front of it says, 'Heathrow'. The doors open and the mice get on. There are fifteen stations before Heathrow. Every time, the train stops. Henry says, 'Quick, quick - what are we waiting for?' Then the doors close and the train starts again. At Heathrow, the mice get off. Marcel looks left and right. 'Where do we go now?' he asks. 'I don't know,' Henry says. He looks left and right, too. There are a lot of signs. Then suddenly Henry smiles. 'Marcel, look! That blue sign says "Concorde".' 'Good,' Marcel says. He looks at his watch. It's 7.10. 'Let's go,' he says. The mice start to run again. 'Marcel,' Henry says, 'what are we going to do? OK, we find the woman... but then what do we do? How do we get the letters back?' Marcel smiles. 'Wait and see,' he says. They come to a door. It says, 'CONCORDE', but it's closed. Henry and Marcel stop in front of it. 'Oh no,' says Henry. But then two men with big bags open the door and go in. The mice go in, too. 'Good,' Marcel says. He looks at the people in the room. 'Now... can you see her?' 'No, I can't,' Henry says. Marcel smiles. 'I can,' he says. 'Where?' 'There. In front of us.' Henry looks. Marcel is right. The American woman is sitting on a chair and listening to her Walkman. She's reading a newspaper, too. Her bag is on the floor, 'OK - let's go,' Marcel says. He takes a small knife from his coat. 'Walk behind me, Henry - but be very, very quiet.' He starts to walk across the room. Henry walks behind his friend. 'Marcel's a detective,' he thinks. 'It's going to be OK. He knows his job. He does this every day. Yes... it's - going - to be - O - K.' Marcel stops in front of the American woman's bag. He looks at Henry. 'Ssshh,' he says. 'Wait here.' Then he climbs up the bag. After a short time, he starts to make a hole in it with his knife. Henry watches. His mouth is open. He looks at the American woman. She's listening to music and reading. She doesn't look down. Marcel climbs into the bag. It's dark. He closes his eyes and opens them again. Now he can see some jeans a radio - some books. Then suddenly he sees the Shakespeare letters. 'Good,' he thinks. He puts the letters on his back and starts to climb down again. Henry sees him and smiles. But then the mice hear a noise. 'Bing bong!' The American woman looks at her watch. Then she takes off her Walkman and starts to put it in her bag. 'Hey!' she says. 'What...? Two mice! What's this?' 'Quick, Henry - catch!' Marcel says. He gives the letters to Henry. Then he climbs down the bag. The mice run very quickly with the Shakespeare letters. They can hear the American woman behind them. She's running very quickly, too. The door is open. A man is coming in. He's fat and he has two bags. The mice run under his legs. Then Marcel hears a big noise! He looks behind him. The American woman is on the floor, and the man is talking to her. 'Sorry,' he says. 'Are you OK?' The woman stands up. 'No!' she says. Then she looks for the mice, but she can't see them. At nine o'clock Marcel and Henry are back at Professor Barton's flat in Old Wilton Street. They're very happy. Marcel is sitting on the table. The Shakespeare letters are in front of him. He's reading them. Henry is standing at the window. He's watching the fireworks. Suddenly he sees a man in a brown coat. It's Professor Barton. He's coming home. The professor is smiling. Then he walks into his flat and suddenly he stops smiling. Marcel and Henry are standing behind a chair. They watch him. He goes to the safe. It's open. He looks in it and says, 'Oh no!' Then he sees the Shakespeare letters on the table. 'But...' He puts one hand on his head. 'I don't understand.' He looks at the safe. Then he looks at the letters - and then he looks at the safe again. 'Why are the letters here?' he says. 'When...? How...? I don't understand.' In the morning, Henry and Marcel go to the British Museum. It's a cold day, and it's raining. In the museum, there are a lot of journalists and TV people. They're waiting for Professor Barton. He arrives at ten o'clock. 'Good morning,' he says to them. He starts to talk about the Shakespeare letters. Then he gives the letters to a man from the museum. 'Thank you very much, Professor,' the man says. Henry and Marcel are standing at the back of the room. Henry smiles at his French friend. 'And thank you, Marcel,' he says. - A Pretty Face By John Escott Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to https://learnenglish-new.com/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories! https://learnenglish-new.com/ Chapter one: Zoe is angry Zoe is seventeen years old. She works in a bookstore, in the little town of Newport. Zoe likes books and she likes her work. But after work she likes to act in plays with the Newport Players. The Newport Players do six plays every year, and Zoe is in most of them. Some plays are exciting, and some plays are famous. This week, the play is Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare. “A lot of people are coming to see it,” Zoe thinks. “I must act well.” Mike is eighteen years old. He is a student at Newport College and he likes writing. One day he wants to write plays for the theatre and for television. “One day I want to be famous,” he thinks. Newport has a newspaper. The Newport Weekly News is its name, and Mike’s Aunt Peggy is the editor. One morning, she phones Mike. “Do you want to write a review of Romeo and Juliet for the newspaper, Mike?” she asks him. “The Newport Players are doing the play tonight at the Little Theatre.” “Yes, please, Aunt Peggy!” Mike says. “Thanks for asking me.” That evening, he goes to Newport’s Little Theatre to see the play. Mike goes into the theatre and sits at the front. He gets out his notebook and pen, ready to write notes for his review. There are a lot of people in the audience. Five minutes later, the play begins. Zoe acts the part of Juliet’s mother. She knows all her words and speaks them well. Mike is watching her. “She’s very pretty and she’s doing her best,” he thinks. “But it’s not easy to act the part of an older woman. She’s only sixteen or seventeen years old, and we all know it.” He begins to write in his notebook. Two hours later, the play ends and the audience leaves the theatre. Mike goes home and writes his review for the newspaper. He doesn’t feel very happy. “It was a good play, but what can I say about the girl acting the part of Juliet’s mother?” he thinks. “I want to be kind but I must be honest, too.” At the bookstore on Friday, Zoe reads Mike’s review of the play in the Newport Weekly News. Zoe is angry. She looks at the name under the review: Mike Morrison. “Who is this Mike Morrison?” she thinks. “What does he know about acting?” ------------------------------------ https://learnenglish-new.com/ ------------------------------------ Chapter Two: Zoe has an idea On Tuesday evening the next week, Zoe and her friend Annie are drinking coffee in the Newport Cafe. Annie is a student at Newport College and sometimes in the evenings she and Zoe meet at the cafe. Suddenly, Zoe sees a boy sitting at a table across the room. “Who’s that boy?” she asks Annie. Annie laughs. “Do you like him? He has a nice face,” she says. “His name’s Mike. I often see him at the college.” “Mike?” Zoe says. “Mike who?” “Mike Morrison,” Annie says. “That’s Mike Morrison?” Zoe says. She is furious. “Yes, why?” Annie asks. “He writes reviews for the Newport Weekly News,” Zoe says. “That’s right,” Annie says. “His aunt is the editor. He … oh!” She stops suddenly and looks at Zoe. “The review of Romeo and Juliet—” “Right!” Zoe says. “Do you remember it? Zoe Baker acts the part of Juliet’s mother. She has a pretty face and she speaks her words well. But she is a young girl in an older furious very woman’s costume, and we all know it.” “Nice face or no nice face, I hate him!” Annie laughs. “OK, go and tell him,” she says. “Go and say, ‘I hate you, Mike Morrison. You write stupid reviews for the newspaper.’ Go on.” But Zoe isn’t laughing. “Yes, all right!” she says furiously, and she begins to get up from her chair. Then she stops, suddenly. “What’s wrong?” Annie asks. “Are you afraid?” “No,” Zoe says. “I have a better idea. Does he come into this cafe often?” “Every Tuesday and Thursday evening, I think,” Annie says. “He has a writing class at the college, and he comes here after it finishes.” Zoe thinks for a minute or two. “That’s very interesting,” she says at last. “Is it?” Annie says. She looks across at Mike Morrison, then at Zoe. “Why is it interesting? What are you thinking of doing?” “Tell me, am I a good actress?” Zoe asks. “Yes, you are,” Annie says. “But—” “OK,” Zoe says. “I’m a good actress and I want to prove it to Mr Mike-Nice-Face Morrison.” “How do you want to do that?” Annie asks. Zoe smiles and begins to tell Annie about her idea… ------------------------------------ https://learnenglish-new.com/ ------------------------------------ Chapter Three: A difficult interview On Thursday, Mike comes to the Newport Cafe after his writing class. He asks for a cup of coffee, then starts to read one of his books. Some minutes later, a woman comes into the cafe. She is carrying a magazine under her arm. At first, Mike does not see the woman. Then she comes across to his table. “Hello,” she says. “Are you Mike Morrison?” Mike is surprised. “Yes,” he says. “That’s me.” The woman smiles. “Can I sit at this table?” she asks. “Yes, of course,” Mike says. “My name is Kate Lawson,” the woman says. “I’m the editor of Yes! magazine. Do you know it?” She sits down and puts the magazine on the table in front of Mike. “Yes, I know it,” Mike says. “It’s a magazine about famous people.” “That’s right,” Kate says. “Do you want to write something for it? Can you do an interview for me?” “An interview?” Mike says, surprised. “Why are you asking me?” “You sometimes write theatre reviews for the Newport weekly newspaper,” she says. “Is that right?” “Yes, I do,” he says. “I want to write plays one day, and—” “Well, do this interview for my magazine then,” she says. “It’s with a famous playwright. He lives in Newport.” “Todd Marin is the only famous playwright in Newport,” Mike says. “He lives quietly and doesn’t go out very often. And he’s famous for not talking to reporters from gossip magazines. He throws them out of his house!” Kate laughs. “Are you afraid?” she says. “Good reporters aren’t afraid to do difficult interviews. You want to write plays, don’t you? Well, perhaps he can tell you something about play-writing.” Mike thinks, “She’s right. Perhaps I can learn something from Todd Marin.” “OK!” he says. “When can I do it?” “Tomorrow morning,” Kate says. “You must tell Marin, ‘This interview is for Yes! magazine.’ But tell him after you get into the house. OK?” “OK,” Mike says. ------------------------------------ https://learnenglish-new.com/ ------------------------------------ Chapter four: Todd Marin’s house Later that evening, Zoe is speaking to Annie on the phone. “... so I say to him, ‘I’m the editor of Yes! magazine and can you interview Todd Marin,’” Zoe tells Annie. “Todd Marin!” Annie says. “But he throws gossip magazine reporters out of his house!” “I know!” Zoe says, laughing. “And I want to stand outside his house and watch Todd Marin throw Mike Morrison out!” The next morning, Mike goes to Todd Marin’s house. It is a big house, and there are lots of bushes and tall trees in front of it. “I don’t like Yes! magazine very much, but this is an important interview,” Mike thinks. “And perhaps I can talk to Todd Marin about my play.” (Mike is writing a play for television.) He walks up to the front door of the house. He is carrying his notebook and he has a list of questions to ask the playwright. But he is a little afraid of the famous man. Zoe follows Mike to Todd Marin’s house. She is careful and she follows Mike very quietly. Zoe is acting the part of Kate Lawson again. She has a black wig over her hair and she is wearing glasses. She hides behind one of the bushes in front of Todd Marin’s house and watches Mike go to the front door. It is a big, dark house. “This is funny,” she thinks, smiling. When Todd Marin opens the door of his house, Mike begins to talk quickly. “Hello, Mr. Marin,” he says. “I’m Mike Morrison. I’m a student at Newport College and I want to write plays.” “Do you?” Todd Marin says. And I write reviews in the Newport Weekly News,” Mike tells him. “What do you want from me?” Todd Marin asks. “Can I ask you some questions?” Mike says. “Why?” Marin asks. “Is it for the Newport Weekly News?” “That’s a difficult question. What do I do now?” Mike thinks. “Do I tell him a lie, or do I tell him the truth?” Then, after a second or two, he says “It … it’s for Yes! magazine. Listen, I know it’s a stupid magazine. But…” ------------------------------------ https://learnenglish-new.com/ ------------------------------------ Chapter five: Zoe waits Zoe is watching Mike and Todd Marin from behind a bush. She can see them but she cannot hear them speaking. She sees Todd Marin open the door, and she sees Mike follow him into the house. Zoe smiles. “Right. He’s in the house,” she thinks. “Now let’s wait for Todd Marin to throw him out!” Todd Marin takes Mike to his study. There are hundreds of books in the room and a big desk. Todd goes and sits behind the desk. “Thank you for telling me the truth,” he says to Mike. “I can see you’re an honest young man. You can ask your questions. But not for Yes! magazine. You’re right. It is a stupid magazine. I hate gossip magazines. Why do people write for them?” “Because they pay a lot of money, I believe,” Mike says. Todd Marin laughs. “Yes, you’re right again,” he says. “But you can write about me for the Newport Weekly News. Is that OK?” “Yes, that’s OK,” Mike says, and he smiles at Todd Marin happily. “I like to help young writers with ideas when I can,” Todd says kindly. “Sit down.” Mike sits down, puts his notebook on Todd’s desk and opens it. “I read your reviews in the newspaper sometimes,” Todd says. “They’re very good.” “Well, I think they’re OK,” Mike says. “But I want to write for the theatre, for TV, and for movies. I’m writing a play now.” “Are you? Tell me about it,” Todd says. “Can I?” Mike asks. “Well, it’s about a boy and a girl.” “A boy and a girl?” “That’s right. They…” Todd Marin sits back in his chair to listen and Mike tells him the plot of his play. Mike is very nervous, but Todd Marin does not speak. He smiles at Mike and he listens to him very carefully. When at last Mike stops speaking, Todd says, “Thank you. That’s very interesting. It’s a good story, and it’s funny too. But there are one or two things you can do to make it better. To begin with…” Zoe stays behind the bush and waits. An hour goes by and nothing happens. She is getting impatient. “What are they doing in there?” she thinks. “Todd Marin never gives interviews to gossip magazines, so what are they talking about?” She remembers Mike Morrison’s review of Romeo and Juliet in the newspaper. She remembers his words about her acting – and she wants to see his face when Todd Marin throws him out of the house. “How long must I wait?” she thinks impatiently. ------------------------------------ https://learnenglish-new.com/ ------------------------------------ Chapter six: Telling the truth After an hour and a half, Mike Morrison leaves Todd Marin’s study and comes out of the house. He and the playwright are smiling and Mike is saying “Thank you.” They talk for two or three minutes and Zoe watches them from behind the bush. She is amazed. “What’s happening?” she thinks. “Why are they so friendly?” After a minute or two more, they shake hands. Then Todd Marin goes back into the house and Mike Morrison walks away. Mike sees Kate Lawson waiting for him. “Oh, hello,” he says nervously. He is surprised to see her so soon. “Are you waiting for me?” “Yes,” she says impatiently. “I’m waiting for your interview.” “Look, I can’t lie to you,” he replies. “There’s no interview for Yes! magazine. Mr. Marin always refuses to talk to reporters from gossip magazines.” “But what—?” Kate begins. “What can two people talk about for an hour and a half?” Mike says, laughing. “About writing, about characters and about plot. Nothing for Yes! magazine, I’m afraid. Oh, I have my list of questions and Mr. Marin’s answers, but my interview is for the Newport Weekly News. And I know a lot more about writing plays now. He’s very interested in my play.” “Your play?” Kate says furiously. “Yes. I’m writing a play for TV,” Mike says. “And Mr Marin wants to read it. He can help me with the characters and the plot.” “Well, that’s nice,” she says. “Say hello to Mike Morrison, the famous playwright! He writes stupid reviews for the Newport Weekly News but his plays are OK.” “That’s right,” Zoe says. “I’m a seventeen-year-old girl in an older woman’s costume, Mr. Mike Morrison, review writer for the Newport Weekly News!” Mike’s face is very red now. He feels embarrassed. “What a trick! So there is no Kate Lawson, editor of Yes! magazine,” he says. “No, there isn’t,” Zoe says, laughing. “What do you think now? Does this prove something? Am I a good actress?” “Yes, you are a good actress,” Mike says, laughing with her. “And I’m going to put that in the Newport Weekly News.” “Are you?” Zoe says. “Yes, and thanks for making me go and see Todd Marin,” Mike tells her. He doesn’t feel embarrassed any more. “Now I can get help with my play,” he says. “Come on, let’s get a cup of coffee. And I’m paying!” “Well, I can’t refuse a free coffee!” Zoe says, and she laughs. - The Umbrella By Clare Harris It is raining. The sky is grey. Carla goes to the market. She looks at the umbrellas. She likes a red umbrella. It’s very smart. It costs ten dollars. Carla is a student. She doesn’t have much money. I can give you seven dollars for that umbrella. OK, young lady. This is your lucky day. Give me seven dollars. The umbrella is yours. “This is my lucky day!” says Carla. She holds the red umbrella above her head. The rain falls on the umbrella. Carla goes to a cake shop. She wants to buy some cakes. Her little brother loves cakes. She goes into the shop. She leaves her red umbrella near the door. It is quiet inside the shop. Carla chooses three small cakes. She talks to the shop assistant. A customer is leaving the shop. She is a young woman. She is holding a cake box. Carla is going to leave the shop. But where is her umbrella? There is one umbrella near the door. It is not a red umbrella. It is not Carla’s umbrella. This umbrella is old and black. It has a pattern of yellow ducks. It is not smart. Carla takes the umbrella. “This is not my lucky day!” Carla says. Carla walks to the town square. A young man speaks to her. Hello! He smiles. Carla does not know this young man. She walks away quickly. The young man is following Carla. She walks into a crowd of people. The young man follows the black and yellow umbrella. “Hello! Wait!” A young man says. Carla turns. She looks at the young man. She is angry. “Go away!” she says. The young man is sad. “Marisa, I’m sorry!” he says. “I’m very late.” “I’m not Marisa” Carla shouts. “You are not Marisa?” says the young man. He points at the black umbrella with yellow ducks. “That’s her umbrella.” “Oh,” says Carla. “Who is Marisa?” “I don’t know Marisa,” says the young man. “I’m going to meet her. We are going to have coffee. It is my cousin’s idea. Marisa works with my cousin.” “I am not Marisa!” says Carla again “My cousin has a photo of Marisa,” says the young man. “She’s tall. You’re tall. Her hair is short and dark. Your hair is short and dark. In the photo, she has an umbrella. It’s a black umbrella with yellow ducks. You have a black umbrella with yellow ducks!” Carla looks up at the old umbrella. “Marisa is a thief,” she thinks. “She has my new red umbrella.” Carla is angry again. “Please don’t be angry,” says the young man. He looks at his watch “It’s three o’clock. Marisa goes to work at 2.30. I can’t meet her now. It’s too late.” He smiles at Carla. “Let’s have coffee together,” he says. Carla thinks for a moment. “OK,” she says. “Let’s go to my aunt’s café.” The young man smiles again. “That will be great,” he says. “My name is Paul. I’m a law student - third year,” A young man says. “I’m Carla. I’m a student too. I’m studying science,” Carla says. Carla sits in the café with Paul. They drink coffee. They talk. They laugh and talk. Suddenly Carla jumps up. “Oh, no!” she says. “It’s late. I must go home. I must study. I’m going to have an exam tomorrow.” “Good luck! Will you meet me again?” Paul says. “Yes. That will be nice.” Carla says. It is almost dark. The town square is quiet. Carla sees a tall young woman. The young woman has short dark hair. She has a smart umbrella. It is a red umbrella. The young woman is Marisa! Marisa sees the old black umbrella with yellow ducks. She is worried. Suddenly, her face is red. “Don’t worry, says Carla. “Keep my red umbrella. I like this umbrella. It’s a lucky umbrella. This is my lucky day!” The rain falls on the umbrellas. Carla smiles. Then she runs home. - Sister Love By John Escott Chapter one Marcia met Howard Collins at church. Marcia was thirty-five years old, Howard was forty-one. Howard lived with his mother in a small house on the south side of the town. Marcia lived with her sister and father in an apartment, three streets away. Marcia did not work. Her father, George Grant, was ill and never left the apartment. He stayed in bed most of the time and always needed somebody with him. So Marcia stayed at home with her father, and only went out when her sister Karin was in the house. The two sisters were very different. Marcia was short with a small round face and short black hair. Karin was ten years younger. She was tall, had long brown hair, and good legs, and a suntan all through the summer. People often said to Marcia, ‘Your sister is very beautiful.’ There were always lots of men ready to take Karin out to dinner or to the cinema. But Marcia stayed at home. Karin worked in a shop in the town. When she was at home, she liked to sit up on the roof garden of their apartment building. It was one Sunday in May when Marcia came home with Howard the first time. She took him to see her father. George Grant was in bed. He had grey hair and a grey face. Sometimes he read a book, but mostly he just sat in bed and watched television. ‘This is Howard, father,’ Marcia said. ‘He works at the hospital, and we met at church. I told you about him last week. Do you remember?’ ‘No,’ her father said. And he turned his face away, back to his television. He was not interested in new people or his daughters’ friends. Just then, Karin came into the room. She wore a white bikini and white shoes. She smiled at Howard. ‘So you’re Howard,’ she said. ‘My big sister has got a boyfriend at last!’ Howard’s face went red and he looked down at his feet. Karin laughed. ‘Come on up to the roof garden and have some wine. The sun is wonderful this morning.’ ‘Oh, I. ..’ Howard began. Marcia looked angrily at her sister. But then she said, ‘Yes, I must get father a drink. See you in a minute, Howard. Go up to the roof and talk to Karin.’ The sun was hot on the roof and Howard took off his coat. He looked around. There were three chairs, a sun umbrella, a sunbed, and a table with three glasses and a bottle of wine on it. There were tiles on the floor, and next to the little wall around the edge of the roof there were some flowers in boxes. This was the ‘garden. ‘Very nice,’ said Howard. Karin smiled at him. Howard looked around. ‘Very nice,’ he said. ‘We don’t see any good-looking men up here,’ she said. ‘Sit down and have a drink.’ Howard’s face went red again. He gave a shy little laugh. ‘Oh, er . . . thank you,’ he said. He tried not to look at Karin’s long suntanned legs, but it was not easy. ‘I come up here all the time when it’s sunny,’ Karin said. She began to put suntan oil on her arms and legs. Howard watched. Then Marcia arrived, and the three of them sat in the sun and drank wine. Marcia looked at Howard with love in her eyes. She did not look at Karin. Karin watched them. Her eyes went from her sister, to Howard, and back again to her sister. She smiled. It was not a nice smile. Chapter two Every Sunday morning after that, Marcia brought Howard home for a glass of wine after church. Howard stopped his car in the street outside the apartment building, and Marcia said, ‘Sound the horn, Howard. Tell Karin we’re here, then she can get the wine ready.’ So Howard gave three little toots on his car horn. On sunny days Karin always came to the wall at the edge of the roof, and looked over to wave at them. Then she went to get the wine. She always wore her bikini or a very short skirt. Marcia never wore short skirts or a bikini. On sunny days Karin alivays came to the wall at the edge of the roof, and looked over to wave at them. ‘My legs are too fat for bikinis,’ she told Howard. ‘Your legs are. . . very nice,’ he said shyly. One day in June Karin asked Howard, ‘What time do you finish work, Howard?’ ‘About six o ’clock,’ he said. ‘Could you bring me home after work?’ Karin said. ‘My shop’s very near the hospital - you drive right past it. And you only live three streets away from us.’ ‘There’s a very good bus,’ said Marcia quickly. ‘It stops outside our building.’ ‘But the bus is so slow!’ Karin said. ‘Please, Howard!’ ‘Please, Howard!’ said Karin. Howard looked from one sister to the other. ‘Oh, well... er, yes, all right then,’ he said. ‘Thank you!’ Karin said, and gave him a quick kiss. So every evening Howard drove Karin home. On the first Friday they were an hour late. When they arrived, Marcia was at the door of the apartment building. ‘What happened?’ she asked. ‘Why are you so late?’ ‘There was an accident,’ Karin said. ‘Three cars, all across the road - on that hill by the cinema, you know. We couldn’t get past, we couldn’t go back. There were so many cars! Nobody could move!’ Howard said nothing. It was a long, hot summer that year. Marcia went to church every Sunday morning, and Karin stayed at home with their father. When it was sunny - and it often was - Karin went up to her sunbed on the roof. When Marcia went up to the roof garden, she always sat under the umbrella. But Karin put on lots of suntan oil and sat in the sun in her bikini. ‘The hot sun’s not good for your body,’ Marcia said. Karin laughed. ‘Howard likes my body.’ ‘No, he doesn’t!’ Marcia said angrily. ‘Oh, he does!’ Karin said. ‘He’s very shy with women, but he always looks at my body very carefully. He does it all the time. Perhaps he wants me to take off—’ ‘Stop it, Karin!’ Marcia said. ‘Don’t say those things!’ Karin laughed. ‘What’s the matter, big sister? Are you afraid I’m going to take him from you?’ Marcia did not answer. Chapter three The next Sunday, Howard phoned Marcia early in the morning. ‘I — I don’t feel very well,’ he said. ‘I’m not going to church today.’ ‘My love, I’m sorry,’ Marcia said. ‘Can I phone you when I get home?’ ‘Yes, of course,’ he said. ‘I can’t phone before one o’clock,’ Marcia said. ‘I’m going to be late back because there’s a meeting after church. Something about Africa, I think.’ ‘Oh yes, I remember,’ Howard said. But Marcia was wrong. There was no meeting after church that morning. It was the next Sunday. So she left church at the usual time and arrived home at a quarter to twelve. First she went in to see her father, but he was asleep. Then she phoned Howard, but there was no answer. ‘Perhaps he’s sleeping,’ she thought. ‘And his mother doesn’t want to answer the phone.’ She went to her room and put on a long summer skirt. Then she went up to the roof garden. She put her hand on the door to the roof. . . and stopped. The door was half open and she could hear voices. There was someone with Karin. A man. Howard. Howard? Marcia listened. Marcia could hear voices. ‘I feel bad about this,’ Howard said. ‘We must tell Marcia soon, Karin.’ ‘No!’ Karin said quickly. She gave a little laugh. ‘It’s our secret, Howard. Only for a little longer. All right?’ ‘I - I don’t like... he began. ‘But you do love me, Howard,’ Karin said. ‘Not Marcia? Say you love me. Please!’ Marcia suddenly felt cold. ‘You… you know I do,’ Howard answered. ‘But— ’ Karin kissed him. ‘It’s our little secret. Oh, is your car outside, my love? We don’t want Marcia to see it.’ ‘I didn’t bring my car,’ Howard said. ‘I walked here.’ ‘Good,’ Karin said. ‘But it’s getting late. You must go, before she comes home.’ They kissed again. ‘See you tomorrow, usual time, usual place,’ said Karin. ‘Now, go!’ Marcia moved quickly and quietly away from the roof door, and ran to her bedroom. She did not want Howard or Karin to see her. She heard their voices. Then the front door of the apartment opened and closed. Howard was gone. Marcia sat on her bed for an hour. ‘Why, why, why?’ she thought. ‘W hy does she do it? I stay at home with an old man all the time. I can’t go out to work, I can’t make new friends, I can’t meet new people. I go shopping once a week and I go to church once a week. That’s all. And then I met Howard. When he said “I love you”, I was so happy* And now… ?’ Karin had everything. Good looks, a job, friends. She was young, she was beautiful, she could have any man. So why Howard? Why, why, why? ‘It’s not because she wants him,’ Marcia thought. ‘It’s because / love him. It’s because she doesn’t want me to be happy.’ But you do love me, Howard. N ot Marcia? You know I do. Was it true? Did Howard love Karin and not her? No! He saw only the beautiful, suntanned body. He didn’t know her. ‘She’s not going to have him…’ Marcia thought. Chapter Four Every evening that week, Howard drove Karin home after work. And every evening they got later and later. The next Sunday, Marcia didn’t go to church. ‘I’ve got a bad head,’ she told Karin. ‘I just phoned Howard and told him, and he’s coming here after church as usual. I’m going back to sleep for an hour or two.’ And she went into her bedroom and shut the door. Later in the morning, when Karin was with their father, Marcia went up to the roof garden. Karin’s bottle of suntan oil was on the table, and Marcia smiled. ‘Oh, is your head better?’ Karin asked. ‘Yes, thanks,’ Marcia said. Karin wore her bikini, a new yellow one. She opened her bottle of suntan oil. Karin opened her bottle of suntan oil. ‘Oh, there’s not much here,’ she said. ‘I must get some more.’ She began to put some oil on her legs. Twenty minutes later, Howard stopped his car in the street below. Up on the roof, Karin and Marcia heard the usual three little toots on his car horn. ‘H e’s here,’ Karin said excitedly. ‘Your man’s here, big sister!’ And she laughed. Yes, Marcia thought. My man, not yours, Karin. Karin jumped up from her sunbed. She ran to the wall at the edge of the roof to look down and wave to Howard. She had no shoes on, and at the wall her feet suddenly slipped away from under her. ‘Aaagh!’ she cried. She fell forward, and put out her hands to grab the wall. But the top of the wall was slippery too. Her hands could not hold it, and slipped away, off the wall, over the edge. And her body went on too, over the edge of the wall, and down… Down…d o w n…d o w n… Before she hit the ground, she knew. Slippery…suntan oil…Marcia… - Joke about a Bed Peter goes to a doctor, “Doctor, I have a problem,” he says. “When I sleep in my bed, I think that there is somebody under my bed. I look under my bed and I think there is somebody on my bed. On, under, on, under. I think that I am crazy!” The doctor thinks for one minute. Then he says, “Come to me for 2 years. Come here three times in a week and I will help you.” “How much will I pay?” Peter asks. “One hundred dollars for a visit,” the doctor says. Peter says, “I will think about it.” Peter never comes back. After two weeks, he meets the doctor on the street. “Why didn’t you come to visit me?” the doctor asks. “One hundred dollars for one visit? It is expensive for me. A barman helped me for 10 dollars.” The doctor doesn’t understand, “What did he do with you?” “He told me to cut the legs of the bed.” An Old Dog A man has a big garden around his house. An old dog comes to his garden. The dog looks at the man and then lies down next to him. When the man stands up and walks to the house, the dog walks behind him. When they are inside, the dog jumps on the sofa, closes his eyes and sleeps for one hour. Then he wakes up and walks to the door. The man lets the dog out. The next day the dog comes again. He jumps on the sofa and sleeps for an hour. This is happening every day for three weeks. The man wants to know why the dog comes to his house. He writes on a piece of paper these words, “Every afternoon your dog comes to my house and sleeps for one hour on my sofa.” Then the man puts this piece of paper on his collar. The next day the dog comes with a different piece of paper on his collar. It says, “He lives in a home with four children. He needs some quite place to relax. Can I come with him tomorrow?” Petrol Station A petrol station owner wants to sell more petrol in a small village. He writes on a board, “Free sex for a full tank.” Many people come to the petrol station. One of the first people is Hugo. When his tank is full, he asks for free sex. The owner tells him, “Tell me a number from 1 to 10.” Hugo says 8. The owner says, “The number is 7. Sorry. No sex this time.” The next week Hugo comes with his friend Augustin. When Hugo’s tank is full, he asks again for free sex. The owner wants to hear the correct number again. Hugo says 2 this time. The owner says, “Sorry, it is 3. No sex today.” Hugo is angry and he tells his friend Augustin, “I think it is a marketing trick and there is no free sex.” His friend Augustin says, “No, it isn’t a trick. My wife had free sex twice last week.” Frying Pan A man is reading his newspaper when his wife walks up to him and hits him on the back of the head with a frying pan. He says, “Why do you hit me?” “There was a piece of paper in your pocket with the words ‘Betty Sue’ on it.” He says, “Honey, ‘Betty Sue’ is the name of the horse which I want to buy.” The wife doesn’t say anything. Three days later he is reading his newspaper again. His wife comes to him and hits him with a frying pan again. He says, “Why do you hit me again?” She says, “Your horse is on the phone.” Hot Summer Day It’s a hot summer day and Jake and Harry are working hard in the garden. Their friend Ralph is sitting under a tree and drinks a cold drink. Jake asks Harry, “Why are we here in the hot sun when Ralph is sitting there?” Harry says, “I don’t know, I will go ask him.” Harry goes to Ralph and asks him, “Why are you sitting here and drinking a cold drink and Jake and I are working in the hot sun?” Ralph says, “Because I have smarts.” “What is smarts?” asks Harry. Ralph puts his hand in front of the tree and says, “Hit my hand very hard.” Harry tries to hit Ralph’s hand but Ralph moves his hand and Harry hits the tree. He feels great pain. Ralph says, “I moved my hand away. I showed you that I have smarts.” Harry goes back to Jake and Jake asks him, “What did he say?” Ralph says, “It’s because he has smarts.“ “What’s that?” Jake asks. Harry puts his hand in front of his face and says, “Hit my hand!” Game A sad man walks into a bar, and the barman asks him what the problem is. “My life is horrible,” the man says. “Every night, I play a game of chess with my wife, and every night she beats me.” “Well, why don’t you stop playing chess?” the barman asks. “I love the game,” the man says, “I’m a genius. I never lose.” The barman doesn’t understand. “But you say that your wife always beats you.” “Well,” the man says, “She doesn’t like to lose.”. Photographer A photographer for a national magazine wants to take pictures of a great forest fire. His boss tells him that a small plane will wait for him at the airport. The plane will fly him over the fire. The photographer comes to the airport only an hour before sunset. A small airplane is waiting there. He jumps in with his camera and shouts, “Go!” The nervous man who is sitting in the pilot’s cabin starts the plane and soon they’re in the air. There is a strong wind and the plane is making strange moves. “Fly over the north side of the fire,” says the photographer, “And go very low.” “Why?” asks the nervous pilot. “Because I will take pictures!” shouts the photographer. “I’m a photographer, and photographers take pictures!” The pilot says, “You are not the flight instructor?” Swimmer Mother comes home from a business trip and she asks her little son, “Well, Johnny, how was your life with father when I was away?” “Everything was fine, mum,” the little boy says. “Daddy took me to the middle of the lake by boat every morning and I swam home alone.” “Wasn’t it difficult for you to swim?” “Oh, no, mum, the only problem was that I had to get out of the bag first.” Best Friend A woman is in bed with her lover who is also her husband`s best friend. They make love for hours and then when they are relaxing in bed, the phone rings. It is the woman’s house, so she answers the phone. The best friend listens. He only hears her side of the conversation. “Hello? Oh, hi… I’m so happy that you called… Really? That’s great… I’m happy to hear that you are having such a good time… Oh, that is fantastic… Thanks. Okay. Bye, bye!” When she finishes the conversation, her lover asks, “Who was that?” “Oh,” she says, “That was my husband. He told me about all the great time which he is having on his fishing trip with you.” Optimist Three friends have a good friend. His name is Joe. Joe is a very big optimist. At every bad situation he always says, “This is no big problem. It could be worse.” His friends don’t like big optimists. So they want to tell Joe a horrible story the next day. They think that Joe cannot find a positive side to this horrible story. So the next day, only two of his friends come to play golf. Joe asks, “Where’s Gary?” One of his friends says, “Yesterday, Gary saw his wife in bed with another man, he killed them both, and then he killed himself.” Joe says, “Well, it could have been worse.” Both his friends say, “How could it be worse? Your best friend killed himself!” Joe says, “If it was two days ago, I would be dead now!” - CHAPTER ONE Summer Days I'm sitting and watching birds. I'm at Blue Moon Beach. I think it is the best beach in the world. The water is warm and blue. The sand is very white. Blue Moon Beach is my beach. I've lived here all my life. Other people come here for a week or two. They swim at the beach. They come to see the fish too. There are many fish in the water at Blue Moon Beach. My name is Samuel Martin. At home I am called 'Sammy'. At school I am 'Sam'. I like the name Sam. I think I'm too old to be Sammy now. I am fifteen. I live with my mother and father in our hotel - Blue Moon Hotel. When I was little I loved all the rooms and the stairs. I loved the big kitchen and all the food. I liked the people who came to stay. I played with lots of children who came with their families. What I like now are the animals and birds that live near our hotel. I like the sea eagles best. I want to write a book about them one day. They are big, strong birds. Sea eagles are the kings of all the birds. They fly over the water to look for food. When I was little there were lots of sea eagles at Blue Moon Beach. This year there are only two sea eagles. Why? Because there are not many trees now. Sea eagles need trees. Now there are lots of houses. It makes me angry. I don't want the birds to leave Blue Moon Beach. Today is the first day of summer - no school for five weeks! Five weeks to swim and watch the sea eagles. I'm lying on the sand. I'm watching one sea eagle. It is on the rocks at the end of the beach. I haven't seen the other sea eagle today. Two men are walking along the beach. I don't think they are here to swim. They are wearing dark clothes. They are wearing shoes and socks. People never wear shoes and socks at Blue Moon Beach. The men stop near me. They look at the rocks. They must be looking at the sea eagle. They talk quietly. Who are they? They see me looking at them and then they walk away. I go for a swim. I love swimming. There are a lot of people in the water today but not many of them swim out in the deep water. I swim out a long way. There are a lot of fish swimming below me. I lie in the water and look up. I see the sea eagle flying above me. I love being out in the water at Blue Moon Beach. The sun is high in the sky. It's time for lunch and I'm hungry. I swim back to the beach and then I walk back to the hotel. 'Sammy,' Mum calls from her office. It is at the front of the hotel. 'Yes, Mum?' I say. 'Dad needs your help in the kitchen after lunch,' she says. 'Today? But it's the first day of summer, Mum. I want to go swimming again this afternoon. And the birds...' 'I want to go swimming too,' says Mum. 'But we all have to work. We have a lot of visitors.' She looks tired. She works very hard. 'Okay, Mum.' Mum smiles at me. 'Thank you, Sammy,' she says. 'Sam, Mum, not Sammy. I'm not a little boy now. I'm fifteen.' 'Okay... Sam. Go and eat lunch. Then help your father.' I go into the kitchen. Dad is cooking. I think he is the best cook in the world. He uses lots of pots. I'll have to wash them after lunch. 'Hello, Sammy,' says Dad. 'It's time for lunch. Are you hungry?' 'Yes! And it smells very good.' After lunch I help my father. We clean the kitchen. I wash the pots and Dad washes the floor. I like to work with Dad. Some boys don't see their fathers very often. But Dad and I are good friends. 'How are your birds today, Sammy?' Dad asks. 'The mother is there. I want to see if there are eggs in the nest. Sea eagles always have two eggs.' 'Eggs?' Dad says. 'It's a long time since I've seen a baby sea eagle.' 'Yes,' I say. We have nearly finished cleaning the kitchen. 'Can I go now, Dad?' I ask. 'Okay, Sammy.' 'Dad - my name is Sam, not Sammy.' I often say this to Mum and Dad. They forget. 'Okay, Sam. Go on - look at your beautiful birds.' 'Thank you, Dad.' I walk through the hotel. I open the front door quietly but Mum hears me. 'Sammy? Come here, please,' she calls from the office. Shall I run? It is a beautiful, warm day. I don't want to do any more work today. I run. Mum comes out of the office. 'Stop, Sammy!' she calls. I stop. I walk back to the office. 'Dad and I have nearly finished cleaning the kitchen, Mum,' I say. 'I need to talk to you now,' Mum says. 'But Mum, I want to see the sea eagles.' 'Sam,' says Mum. 'Please.' So I sit and listen. 'A boy is coming here today with his mother. His name is Tim Bailey. I want you to show him the village. Take him to the beach.' 'But Mum, I want to watch the sea eagles. The mother has been in the nest all day. They'll have baby sea eagles in the nest soon.' 'Sam, please listen. Tim's mother, Mary, was my best friend at school. They live in the city now. Tim's father died after being sick for a long time. Mary is very sad. Tim is sad too. I asked them to come here. The sea air will be good for them. Tim needs a friend. I told his mother you will be Tim's friend.' Mum looks at me. I look at the floor. I don't want to be friends with Tim. I don't want Mum telling me who to be friends with. I want to swim and watch the sea eagles. 'Mum - do I have to?' 'Yes, you do.' 'All right, Mum,' I say. CHAPTER TWO Tim Can't Swim 'This is my son, Sammy,' says Mum to Tim and his mother. 'Hello, Sammy,' says Tim's mother. Tim doesn't speak. Tim is tall and thin. He has black hair and he is very white. Maybe he never goes out in the sun. His clothes are new. My clothes are old. There are holes in my T-shirt. Mum wants to buy me new T-shirts. But I like my old clothes. I look at Tim and he looks at me. We don't smile. 'You boys can go and play now,' says my mother. 'Mum!' I say quietly. 'I don't play. I'm fifteen.' 'Take Tim to the beach, Sammy,' says Mum. 'Come on, Tim,' I say. 'Wear a hat, Tim,' says his mother. 'And wear your T-shirt all the time. Stay in the shallow water. Be back in an hour.' Tim says, 'Mum, stop it.' He looks at me and says, 'Come on.' He doesn't wait for me. He walks away. His mother calls, 'Tim, you forgot your hat!' I take the hat from her and I follow Tim to the beach. I stand on the sand and look for Tim. For a minute I can't see him. But then I see him at the other end of the beach. I walk along the beach and give him his hat. 'You don't have to stay with me,' Tim says. 'You don't want to, do you? Our mothers are friends. We're not friends.' What can I say? 'Just go away,' Tim says. He sits on the sand and looks out to sea. 'Okay, I will,' I say. I go to the rocks. I sit quietly and watch the mother sea eagle. She has not left the nest all day. I watched the eagles making the nest. It took a long time. They worked hard. They flew away and returned with sticks again and again. They brought back lots of leaves too. Now one sea eagle is always sitting in the nest. I look down at the beach. I can't see Tim. Maybe he went back to the hotel. The men are on the beach again. The bigger man is talking into a mobile phone. The other one is looking out to sea and up into the sky. What is he looking for? The men are walking towards me. The bigger man puts his mobile phone away. He looks at me then talks to the other man. They both look at me then walk away. Who are they? I see the second sea eagle flying over the beach. He flies over the sand, then over the water. He flies in circles, looking for food. Suddenly he drops down into the water. He flies up again, carrying a large fish. He will take the fish to the nest. The mother sea eagle must be very hungry. Just as the bird flies near me, a boy climbs up the rocks next to the nest. It is Tim. It is hard to climb those rocks. They are big and there aren't many places to put your hands and feet. Tim doesn't see me. He walks towards the sea eagles' nest. Oh, no! Both the sea eagles are flying away. Tim has scared them. When people go near a nest, the birds fly off. And the eggs - the eggs will get cold! 'Get away!' I scream at Tim. I jump up and run towards him. I'm very angry. I want to hit him. Tim sees me. Now he looks scared. The sea eagles are flying in circles above us. 'Get away,' I scream again. Tim doesn't want to come near me. He tries to climb down the rocks to get away from me. He's going very fast. Suddenly he falls off the rocks. I hear him hit the water. He'll be okay, I think. I'll wait for him to swim back to the beach. City boys should stay in the city. I start walking back to the beach. Then I hear Tim screaming from the water, 'Help! Help! I can't swim.' Suddenly I'm very scared. CHAPTER THREE Out at Night 'Help!' calls Tim again. I run over the rocks and jump into the deep water. There are no other people near us. I swim out to Tim. We are both very scared. 'It's okay,' I say to him. 'I'll help you. Hold onto me.' Tim holds onto me. We both go under the water. Then I swim and I pull Tim up. We both get our heads above the water. 'Lie back in the water, Tim,' I say. 'I can't.' 'Yes, you can. Just try. I'll hold you,' I say. I hold onto his arm. He lies back in the water. I start swimming. I have to swim for a long time. I talk to Tim as I swim. 'It's okay, Tim. We're nearly there.' When we get to the shallow water, Tim and I just sit in the water. Then we get out and we both lie down on the warm sand. I am very tired. 'Thanks,' says Tim. 'I was very scared.' 'I was too,' I say. 'Why did you scream at me on the rocks?' asks Tim. 'Because you were near the sea eagles' nest,' I say. 'They are scared of us.' 'Oh,' says Tim. 'I don't know much about birds.' 'Look - there. Do you see them? Both the sea eagles are flying over the water. One of them needs to go back to the nest to sit on the eggs. I'm worried about the eggs. They must stay warm.' 'I'm sorry,' says Tim. He watches the sea eagles. 'They are beautiful.' 'I think so too,' I say. I look at my watch. 'Come on. We must hurry. We're late.' We walk quickly back to the hotel. I'm worried. What will Tim say to his mother? My mother will be very angry if she knows what I did. Tim's mother comes running from the hotel. 'Tim, where have you been? You're late! And you're all wet! You didn't go in the water, did you? Oh, Tim!' She is very angry with him. Tim looks at me. Then he looks at his mother. 'Sorry, Mum,' he says. 'I tried to swim. I couldn't do it. The water was very deep. Sam saved me.' 'Tim - how could you?' His mother is going to cry. 'I won't do it again, Mum. Sorry.' She looks at me. 'Thank you so much, Sammy. You are a good friend. Thank you for saving Tim.' I don't know what to say. My mother comes out of the hotel. Tim's mother calls to her, 'Sammy saved Tim. Tim can't swim. Your son is a hero!' I don't think I'm a hero. I feel bad. Tim didn't try to swim. I screamed at him and he fell into the water. We both know it. I look at Tim and he looks at me. He smiles and I smile back. 'My hero!' says Mum. 'Come in and put on some dry clothes, both of you. Then I'll make you some hot chocolate.' I love hot chocolate. Mum makes the best hot chocolate in the world. I drink it very slowly. Tim does too. We're sitting in the kitchen. Mum is back in her office. Dad comes in. 'I hear my son is a hero,' he says. 'Well done, Sammy.' 'Thanks, Dad - but...' I feel bad. Everyone thinks I'm a hero. 'Sam swims very well, Mr Martin,' says Tim quickly. 'And he's going to help me learn about sea eagles.' 'You and your sea eagles, Sammy,' says Dad. He smiles at Tim. 'Sammy is always talking about those birds.' 'Do you want some hot chocolate, Dad?' I ask him. 'There is some in the pot.' 'No thanks, Sammy. I think I'll have some coffee.' 'Good,' I say. 'More hot chocolate for you and me, Tim!' 'Yes, please,' says Tim. 'I'd love some more.' After dinner, Tim and I sit outside. It is a warm night but it is very dark. There is no moon. Our mothers are sitting inside, talking and talking. Dad is in the kitchen, cooking. He cooks all the meals for the people who stay at Blue Moon Hotel. He loves cooking but it is a big job. 'It's good to be out here,' says Tim. 'It's quiet. My mother talks and talks. She asked you a lot of questions about this afternoon. I'm sorry about that. But she worries about me.' 'That's okay,' I say. 'After Dad died...' Tim stops, then he says, 'It's just Mum and me now. She only has me.' What can I say? I don't speak for a minute. Then I say, 'I'm worried about the sea eagles. They need to keep the eggs warm all the time. I want to know one of them is back on the nest. I'm going to have a look. I like to go for a walk at night. If you're quiet, you see a lot of birds and animals who come out at night. Do you want to come with me?' 'Now?' asks Tim. 'Yes,' I say. 'No, thanks. Mum says I can't go out at night.' I think for a minute. 'When does she go to bed?' I ask. 'Early. She always goes to bed early.' 'Okay. We'll go out after your mother goes to bed.' Tim thinks for a minute. 'Okay. I'll come. Mum won't know.' Later, Tim and I walk very quietly down the stairs and out of the hotel. My parents are watching television. Tim's mother is in her room. We walk down to the beach. We go along a road towards the rocks. It is very dark. 'People never come here at night,' I say to Tim. 'Don't they?' he says. 'Then what is that truck doing there?' 'What truck?' I ask. 'Look - over there.' There is a truck. It isn't easy to see. It is under some trees. Tim and I walk over to the truck. The back doors of the truck are open so we look inside. There are a lot of boxes, bags, nets and ropes in the truck. 'Oh, no,' I say. 'What's wrong?' Tim asks me. 'We must be careful, Tim,' I say quietly. 'I think bird smugglers use these things.' 'How do you know that?' asks Tim. 'I saw something about it on television. Look - there are air holes in the boxes.' 'Why are there bird smugglers here?' asks Tim. 'The sea eagles!' I say. 'Bird smugglers take sea eagles and other birds. Then they sell the birds for a lot of money in other countries. They put these nets and ropes near birds' nests. Then they scare the birds. The birds fly into the nets. The bird smugglers take the birds out of the nets and put them in these boxes.' I open one of the bags. It has some bird food in it. Another bag has some fish in it. Sea eagles love fish. 'You're right, Sam,' says Tim. 'What do we do now?' 'We need to stop the bird smugglers,' I say to Tim. 'And quickly.' CHAPTER FOUR Where is Tim? 'We must get help,' says Tim. 'I'll stay here and watch the truck. You go and get help.' 'Okay. I'll go and get Constable Carter. He's the police officer here in Blue Moon Beach. But first I want to see what the smugglers are doing. I'm going to have a quick look. I want to tell Constable Carter all about them. He'll need to know how many there are and what they are doing. I want to see if the sea eagles are okay too.' 'Okay, but be very careful, Sam,' says Tim. 'And be quick!' 'I'll be careful. You be careful too, Tim. Be very quiet and listen for the smugglers. Stay here under this tree. They must not see you. Stay away from the truck,' I say. 'Okay,' says Tim. I run through the trees. I know the way to the nest very well. I'm really worried about the sea eagles - and their eggs. I try to be quiet. I'm scared the smugglers will see me or hear me. I know I am near the nest. Suddenly, I hear some people coming. Then I see two men. They are the men I saw on the beach this morning. 'Come on, come on,' one says. 'We're late. We mustn't stay here too long. The boat is waiting for us at Sunshine Bay.' 'Okay, okay,' says the other man. 'Ow! It bit me!' The men have the sea eagles. They are the smugglers! I am angry. I want to scream at them. But most of all, I want to get the birds back. So I am quiet and I don't move. I can see that the men have knives. I don't want the birds to get hurt. And the men are both bigger and stronger than me. What can I do to stop them? It's best to leave this to the police, I think. Constable Carter will know what to do. I move quietly behind a tree. 'What's that?' says the smaller man. He looks towards me. It is very dark. Can he see me? I am really scared. I close my eyes. 'What's what?' says the other one. 'Over there. I saw...' 'Come on, Mac. It's dark. You can't see a thing. Stop worrying. We're nearly at the truck.' The truck - Tim! The men walk on. They are carrying the birds. The birds are making a lot of noise. Has Tim heard the men and the birds? I follow the men quietly. I hear some noise, then I hear the truck start. I run. The truck isn't there any more. 'Tim? Tim!' I call. 'Tim!' Where is Tim? Did the smugglers see him? Is Tim in the truck with the birds? Is he hurt? 'Tim! Tim!' There's no answer. CHAPTER FIVE Finding the Truck I must get help. I start running. The hotel is closer than Constable Carter's house. Dad will know what to do. Dad will help. But Mum and Dad will be very angry with me. It was wrong to take Tim out at night. It was wrong to look for the birds after we saw the truck. Worst of all, it was wrong to leave Tim with the truck. His mother will be very worried and very angry. No, I won't go to the hotel. I'll run to Constable Carter's house. Blue Moon village isn't very big. I know where he lives. His house is next to my school. It is only two kilometres from the beach. What can one police officer do to stop the smugglers? I heard where the smugglers are going - Sunshine Bay. I can tell Constable Carter. Perhaps he'll phone the police officer there. And that police officer can stop the smugglers. It's very dark but I know the roads well. I run and run. Will Constable Carter be at home? The police officer in Sunshine Bay must stop the truck. I'm very worried about Tim and the birds. Is Tim okay? I try not to cry. It is late at night. There are no cars on the road. There are no houses here. Then I see it - the truck! It's stopped on the side of the road. I stop running. The two smugglers are standing beside the truck. The bigger one is very angry. He hits the truck. 'You drive this truck every day. You must know what's wrong with it. Why won't it go? We must get out of here.' The second man just stands there. He looks very unhappy. I need to open the back doors of the truck. I need to see if Tim is in there. I need to get the sea eagles out. I walk very quietly and very slowly to the truck. The men are at the front of the truck now. One of them is talking on his mobile phone. He says, 'Yes, we're at Blue Moon Beach. Yes, we have the birds. But we can't drive the truck.' He is quiet, then he says, 'It just stopped. I don't know why. We can't start it again. What do we do now?' He's quiet again. Then he says, 'Okay, we'll wait for you to call us back. But don't be long.' I am at the back door of the truck. Very quietly I start to open the door. I am very, very scared. 'Psst... Sam!' The voice comes from the dark trees beside the truck. I stare into the trees. 'It's me,' Tim calls quietly. I walk very slowly over to the trees. I see Tim. He's under the biggest tree. We talk very quietly. 'Are you okay, Tim? Are you hurt?' 'I'm all right,' he says. 'I'm sorry, Tim,' I say to him. He smiles at me. 'Why?' 'Because I left you with the truck. Because I didn't go to the police officer's house. I went to look at the birds.' 'That's okay,' says Tim. 'I stopped the smugglers. I stopped their truck.' He smiles again. 'You stopped the truck? How?' I forget to be quiet and Tim puts his hand over my mouth. 'Sh! Be quiet and I'll tell you. After you left me, I thought about what to do. I know a lot about trucks and cars. My grandfather has a farm. He works on his trucks and cars. I help him. I love it. So I knew what to do with the smugglers' truck. I got under it and I hit the fuel pipe with a rock.' 'What's a fuel pipe?' I ask quietly. The men are sitting in the truck now. They must be waiting for the mobile phone to ring. The windows are closed so they can't hear us. 'You don't know much about cars and trucks, do you?' says Tim with a smile. 'The fuel pipe takes petrol to the engine. The engine needs petrol to go.' 'I know that!' I say. 'Okay. So I hit the fuel pipe again and again. Now the petrol can't get through to the engine.' 'Well done!' I say. 'Then those men came back with the birds and they put the birds in the back of the truck. I watched from behind a big rock,' says Tim. 'The men were careful with the birds, though. They didn't hurt them.' 'What about the eggs?' I ask. 'Did the smugglers take them too? Are they in the truck? They mustn't get cold.' 'I don't know where the eggs are,' says Tim. 'I didn't see them.' 'What happened next?' I ask. 'Well, the men got into the truck and the engine started. I was worried. I thought, 'There's petrol left in the engine and the fuel pipe.' I didn't know what to do, so I jumped into the back of the truck. The truck went for a while but then the engine stopped. So I jumped out... and here I am.' I smile, but then Tim says, 'What do we do now?' 'I don't know,' I say. 'I want to get the birds out of the truck, but we can't. They will make a lot of noise and the men will hear. Also the birds are very heavy. We can't carry them far.' 'We need to go to the police officer's house,' says Tim. 'But we can't leave. The smugglers will see us.' We both sit quietly for a while. Then I know what to do. 'Tim! We need to get some ropes and nets out of the truck. We must do it very quietly.' Tim comes with me to the truck. We open the back door very slowly. I look in. I can't see the sea eagles. I do see some large boxes. Perhaps the birds are in them. I take some ropes out of the truck. This must work! CHAPTER SIX The Men See Us I'm standing at the back of the truck. The bigger man gets out of the truck. He is talking on his mobile phone again. He is angry. 'No, we can't wait,' he says. 'You must come and get us now.' Suddenly he sees me. 'I know who you are!' I scream at him. 'You're a bird smuggler. You have sea eagles in your truck. I'm going to get the police!' I start running away from the truck. 'Hey!' He puts his mobile phone away. 'You! Stop!' He shouts to the other smuggler, 'Mac! Come here, quickly. I've found a boy. He knows about the birds.' I hear the truck door opening. Mac shouts, 'Stop!' too. They both run after me. I look back at them. The bigger man is holding his knife! I am very scared. I jump over some ropes on the road. 'Now, Tim, now!' I shout. Tim is standing on the other side of the road. He is holding onto the ropes. He pulls them. Suddenly there are nets and ropes in front of the smugglers. Both men run into the nets. The bigger man drops his knife. He puts his hands up to try to get out of the nets. Tim pulls the ropes. I help him. The men are shouting. Tim and I are screaming. We sit on the smugglers but the men are very strong and very angry. We can't hold them for very long. Will they get out of the nets? 'Help! Help!' I shout. 'Get off me!' shouts the bigger man. A car drives up and stops. 'Is that you, Sam?' It's the police officer, Constable Carter. He is getting out of his car. 'Sam? Are you okay? I had a phone call from the people down the road. They said they heard a lot of people shouting. Who are these men?' 'Oh, Constable Carter - it's so good to see you. These men are bird smugglers! They put the sea eagles in the back of their truck.' The men try to get away from us. But Constable Carter soon has them in the back of the police car. He calls on his radio for more police. He sees the knife on the ground. 'Sam! These men had knives!' 'I know. Tim and I had to help the sea eagles, Constable Carter,' I say quietly. 'Can we look in the truck now? I need to know the birds are okay.' I look into the boxes. The birds are not hurt. Best of all, the eggs are in one of the boxes. Constable Carter looks at the birds and the eggs. 'Well done, boys!' 'What will Mum say?' says Tim. We both smile. CHAPTER SEVEN Friends Tim and I help Constable Carter put the sea eagles - and their eggs - back in the nest. It's not easy. The birds are very heavy and they don't like us holding them. One bird bites me. The other police officers have taken the smugglers away. They are going to go to Sunshine Bay to look for the smugglers' friends and their boat. Tim and I go back to Blue Moon Hotel. Constable Carter comes with us. Dad and Mum are in bed. They both come to the front door. We all go into the front room. Constable Carter tells them about the birds and the smugglers. I was right - my parents are very angry. They are happy Tim and I are okay but they are not happy with me. Mum gets Tim's mother. She walks in and sees Tim. 'Tim - why aren't you in bed?' Tim doesn't speak. He doesn't look at his mother. My mother says, 'Constable Carter, this is Mary Bailey, Tim's mother.' Constable Carter says, 'Good evening, Mrs Bailey. I'm Steve Carter. I'm the police officer here in Blue Moon Beach. Your son Tim and his friend Sam are heroes. They helped the police catch two bird smugglers.' Tim's mother opens her eyes very wide. 'What? Bird smugglers? Tim, what's Constable Carter talking about?' 'Let's sit down and listen to the boys' story,' says Dad. Mum says, 'I'll make some hot chocolate.' Soon, we're all drinking hot chocolate. Constable Carter says, 'Sam, Tim, tell us more of your story. When did you know about the smugglers?' I say, 'I saw those men on the beach this morning. They were looking at the sea eagles, and the nest. And tonight we saw the things in the back of their truck - the boxes and the ropes and the nets. Then I knew.' 'Why didn't you go and get Constable Carter?' asks Dad. 'Or come back home?' says Mum. 'That's a good question,' says Mrs Bailey. 'It is the job of the police to catch smugglers. Tim, I'm very angry. Why did you go out? I told you not to go out at night. Those men...' She starts to cry. Mum goes to her and holds her hand. 'Now, Mary. Don't cry,' says Mum. 'Tim is okay. Boys will be boys.' 'No,' says Mrs Bailey. 'Not my Tim. I need him. It's just the two of us now.' My family and Constable Carter do not speak. Tim is quiet for a minute. Then he looks at his mother and says, 'I'm sorry, Mum. But I'm fifteen. I need to try new things.' She looks at him. She gives him a small smile. 'Oh, Tim. Where has my little boy gone? You're right. But no more catching smugglers. Okay?' 'Okay, Mum,' says Tim, with a big smile. 'I want to hear more about it,' says Dad. 'You were very clever to stop the truck.' 'Tim stopped the truck,' I say. 'And we caught them with their own nets!' says Tim. Tim and his mother stay with us for two weeks. Tim and I tell our story again to Constable Carter and some other police officers. They did not catch the other bird smugglers in the boat at Sunshine Bay. But Tim and I are just happy the sea eagles are okay. I show Tim lots of things at Blue Moon Beach. Soon he can name most of the birds and some of the fish. Every day we go to the beach and I teach him to swim. We go out deeper every day. Some mornings, Mrs Bailey sits on the beach and watches. She smiles a lot more these days. One day Tim says, 'Come in for a swim, Mum!' And she does! Tim teaches me things too. He teaches me about cars. We climb under Dad's car and Tim shows me the fuel pipe. He shows me how he used the rock on the smugglers' truck. Tim and his mother are going home tomorrow. I don't want them to go. Tim wants to stay too. Tim and I walk down to the beach and have a swim. Then we go out to the rocks. Tim wants to have one last look at the sea eagles. Tim and I don't go near the nest these days, but we see the birds flying above us. One of the birds flies down to the nest. Then we hear a noise coming from the nest. It's a bird noise, but it's not like the noise I've heard sea eagles make before. 'What's making that noise?' asks Tim. 'Let's go and see,' I say. 'Come on.' We go a little closer to the nest, and what do we see? A baby sea eagle! Only one. Perhaps the other egg got cold. But this baby sea eagle looks strong and well. Its mother is giving it a small fish to eat. Tim and I look up. We watch the other sea eagle flying in circles over Blue Moon Beach. 'In three months the baby will be flying too,' I say. 'I'll come back and see that,' says my friend Tim. - THE END - Hope you have enjoyed the reading! Come back to http://english-e-reader.net/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories!
My Wonderful Family (A1) I live in a house near the mountains. I have two brothers and one sister, and I was born last. My father teaches mathematics, and my mother is a nurse at a big hospital. My brothers are very smart and work hard in school. My sister is a nervous girl, but she is very kind. My grandmother also lives with us. She came from Italy when I was two years old. She has grown old, but she is still very strong. She cooks the best food! My family is very important to me. We do lots of things together. My brothers and I like to go on long walks in the mountains. My sister likes to cook with my grandmother. On the weekends we all play board games together. We laugh and always have a good time. I love my family very much. Did you understand the text? 1) My mother is a... Doctor Nurse Writer Waitress a) b) c) d) 2) My house is near the... City Monastery Mountains Italy a) b) c) d) 3) How old was I when my grandmother came? Three years old Just born Ten years old Two years old a) b) c) d) 4) On the weekends, we... Play board games together Go to a movie Clean the house Cook pasta a) b) c) d) 5) My sister is kind, but also... Mean Quiet Nervous Strong a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/wonderful-family/ Solution: 1) b 2) c 3) d 4) a 5) cMy day (A1) First, I wake up. Then, I get dressed. I walk to school. I do not ride a bike. I do not ride the bus. I like to go to school. It rains. I do not like rain. I eat lunch. I eat a sandwich and an apple. I play outside. I like to play. I read a book. I like to read books. I walk home. I do not like walking home. My mother cooks soup for dinner. The soup is hot. Then, I go to bed. I do not like to go bed. Did you understand the text? 1) What happens first? Wake up Get dressed Eat lunch Walk to school a) b) c) d) 2) What do I like? Rain Going to bed Walking home Books a) b) c) d) 3) How do I go to school? I ride a bike. I ride the bus. I walk. I drive a car. a) b) c) d) 4) What do I eat for dinner? Soup Sandwich Apple Pie a) b) c) d) 5) What do I not like? Playing Soup Going to school Going to bed a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/my-day/ Solution: 1) a 2) d 3) c 4) a 5) dMy name is John (A1) Hi! Nice to meet you! My name is John Smith. I am 19 and a student in college. I go to college in New York. My favorite courses are Geometry, French, and History. English is my hardest course. My professors are very friendly and smart. It's my second year in college now. I love it! I live in a big house on Ivy Street. It's near the college campus. I share the house with three other students. Their names are Bill, Tony, and Paul. We help each other with homework. On the weekend, we play football together. I have a younger brother. He just started high school. He is 14 and lives with my parents. They live on Mulberry Street in Boston. Sometimes they visit me in New York. I am happy when they visit. My Mom always brings me sweets and candy when they come. I really miss them, too! Did you understand the text? 1) Where does John Smith go to college? Berlin Paris New York Boston a) b) c) d) 2) What is John Smith's hardest course? French English Math Art a) b) c) d) 3) Who shares a house with John Smith? Bill, John, and Tom Frank, Tony, and Mike Anna, Margaret, and Tanya Bill, Tony, and Paul a) b) c) d) 4) How old is John Smith's younger brother? seven eleven thirteen fourteen a) b) c) d) 5) What does John Smith's Mom bring him when they visit? Candy and ice cream Sweets and candy Fruits and vegetables Flowers and coffee a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/john/ Solution: 1) c 2) b 3) d 4) d 5) bOur Vacation (A1) Every year we go to Florida. We like to go to the beach. My favorite beach is called Emerson Beach. It is very long, with soft sand and palm trees. It is very beautiful. I like to make sandcastles and watch the sailboats go by. Sometimes there are dolphins and whales in the water! Every morning we look for shells in the sand. I found fifteen big shells last year. I put them in a special place in my room. This year I want to learn to surf. It is hard to surf, but so much fun! My sister is a good surfer. She says that she can teach me. I hope I can do it! Did you understand the text? 1) My favorite beach is... Surf Beach Emerson Beach Palm Beach Long Beach a) b) c) d) 2) What animals do I see in the water? Sharks Starfish Dolphins Dogs a) b) c) d) 3) How many shells did I find last year? Twelve Five Fifty Fifteen a) b) c) d) 4) What do I want to learn this year? Surfing Swimming Sailing How to find shells a) b) c) d) 5) Where did I put my shells last year? In a box In the garage In my room In Florida a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/vacation/ Solution: 1) b 2) c 3) d 4) a 5) c Preparing food (A1) Jack was hungry. He walked to the kitchen. He got out some eggs. He took out some oil. He placed a skillet on the stove. Next, he turned on the heat. He poured the oil into the skillet. He cracked the eggs into a bowl. He stirred the eggs. Then, he poured them into the hot skillet. He waited while the eggs cooked. They cooked for two minutes. He heard them cooking. They popped in the oil. Next, Jack put the eggs on a plate. He placed the plate on the dining room table. Jack loved looking at his eggs. They looked pretty on the white plate. He sat down in the large wooden chair. He thought about the day ahead. He ate the eggs with a spoon. They were good. He washed the plate with dishwashing soap. Then, he washed the pan. He got a sponge damp. Finally, he wiped down the table. Next, Jack watched TV. Did you understand the text? 1) What food was cooked? Pork Rice Fish Eggs a) b) c) d) 2) Where did Jack eat the eggs? In front of the TV At the dining room table In the kitchen In his room a) b) c) d) 3) How long did the eggs cook? 2 minutes 3 minutes 5 minutes 10 minutes a) b) c) d) 4) What was the chair made of? Wood Metal Stone We do not know a) b) c) d) 5) Jack cooked in a skillet. What is another word for skillet? Slow cooker Pan Oven Microwave a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/preparing-food/ Solution: 1) d 2) b 3) a 4) a 5) b The House (A1) Mr. and Mrs. Smith have one son and one daughter. The son's name is John. The daughter's name is Sarah. The Smiths live in a house. They have a living room. They watch TV in the living room. The father cooks food in the kitchen. They eat in the dining room. The house has two bedrooms. They sleep in the bedrooms. They keep their clothes in the closet. There is one bathroom. They brush their teeth in the bathroom. The house has a garden. John and Sarah play in the garden. They have a dog. John and Sarah like to play with the dog. Did you understand the text? 1) How many children do Mr. and Mrs. Smith have? One son One daughter One son and one daughter No children a) b) c) d) 2) Who cooks in the kitchen? Mother Sarah Father John a) b) c) d) 3) Where does the family eat? Living room Kitchen Bedroom Dining room a) b) c) d) 4) How many bedrooms are in the house? One Two Three Four a) b) c) d) 5) What do John and Sarah do in the garden? Play Sleep Cook Brush their teeth a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/house/ Solution: 1) c 2) c 3) d 4) b 5) a Letter to a Friend (A2) Hi, Fred! It's been a while since we have been in touch. How has your semester been? I wanted to send you an email update to you let you know how things have been going during my semester abroad here in Málaga, Spain. I've already been here for six weeks, and I feel like I am finally adapting to the culture. I'm also speaking the language more fluently. I arrived during the first week of September. The weather has been very nice. Even though it's October, it's still rather sunny and warm. In fact, I went to the beach and swam in the Mediterranean Sea earlier today. I am living with a very welcoming host family. I have my own private bedroom, but we eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner together. On Sundays, we eat a big home-cooked paella for lunch. In Spain, lunch is usually the biggest meal of the day. It's also very common for the people to take a midday nap right after a big meal. I am actually just waking up from my nap right now! On weekdays, I take classes at the local university. There, I met several native Spanish speakers. They have been very kind and patient with me. At first, I struggled to comprehend their Spanish, but now I understand most of our conversations. They have commented that my Spanish has improved a lot since we first met. Now, I am more confident to use the language in other places like stores and restaurants. I am so glad that I decided to spend the semester here in Spain. We have an extended weekend coming up, so a group of my friends and I are going to travel to France for four days. It's so easy and inexpensive to travel internationally in Europe. I love it! I look forward to hearing from you soon. Like I said, don't hesitate to stay in touch more often. Perhaps you could even come to visit! What do you think? Best wishes, Patrick Did you understand the text? 1) Why is Patrick writing to Fred? To give Fred travel advice To update Fred about life abroad To wish Fred a happy birthday To offer Fred a job in Spain a) b) c) d) 2) How long has Patrick been out of the country? One week One month Six weeks Six months a) b) c) d) 1/2 More questions about the text: 3) Based on the letter, Málaga is most likely located: On the coast In the mountains In a valley In Madrid, the capital a) b) c) d) 4) The best definition of "paella” is: A frozen beverage A common meal A sweet dessert A small snack a) b) c) d) 5) What does Patrick do from Monday to Friday? Offer English lessons Go out with friends Travel internationally Take college classes a) b) c) d) 6) Where does Patrick plan on traveling during the extended weekend? Spain France England Germany a) b) c) d) 2/2 Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/letter-to-a-friend/ Solution: 1) b 2) c 3) a 4) b 5) d 6) b  My family at home (A2) My family lives in a small house. It's simple but pretty. It has a large garden. I like to work in the garden but my sister hates to work in the garden. She prefers to read. She reads in the morning, in the afternoon and at night. I give all of the vegetables to mom and dad. They like to cook in our small kitchen. I eat any vegetable but my sister eats only a few. My family always eats breakfast and dinner together. We talk. We laugh. Then my sister washes the dishes. At night dad likes to listen to music. Mom works on the computer. I watch television. And my sister reads. Soon we go to bed. My parents go to bed late but my sister and I go to bed early. I'm ready to go to sleep but my sister wants to keep reading. Did you understand the text? 1) Which is another way to describe the family's house? cramped but cozy narrow but suitable little but attractive old but cheery a) b) c) d) 2) The family has how many members? two three four five a) b) c) d) 3) Who doesn't enjoy working in the garden? grandmother cousin father sister a) b) c) d) 4) When does the sister like to read? at night in the afternoon in the morning all of the above a) b) c) d) 5) When do the family members not eat together? at dinner at lunch at breakfast all of the above a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/my-family/ Solution: 1) c 2) c 3) d 4) d 5) b My morning routine (A2) My name is Bob. Each day I drive my kids to school. My daughter goes to a school that's far from our house. It takes 30 minutes to get there. Then I drive my son to his school. It's close to my job. My daughter is in the sixth grade and my son is in the second. They are both good students. My daughter usually sings her favorite songs while I drive. My son usually sleeps. I arrive at the office at 8:30 AM. I say good morning to all my workmates then I get a big cup of hot coffee. I turn on my computer and read my email. Some days I have a lot to read. Soon I need another cup of coffee. Did you understand the text? 1) Which two places are near each other? home and office son's school and office home and daughter's school daughter's school and office a) b) c) d) 2) Which child is older? daughter son same age not sure a) b) c) d) 3) What happens in the car each morning? father and daughter tell jokes son and daughter talk son sleeps and daughter sings daughter reads and son sleeps a) b) c) d) 4) What happens at the office? workmates give Bob a big cup of hot coffee Bob gives all his workmates a big cup of hot coffee Bob gets a big cup of hot coffee all of the above a) b) c) d) 5) When does Bob get his second cup of coffee? after driving the children home before reading his email before greeting his coworkers after reading his email a) b) c) d) ©2021 Lingua.com. All Rights Reserved. Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/morning-routine/ Solution: 1) b 2) a 3) c 4) c 5) d Numbers (A2) Most individuals don't think about numbers, or numerical representations of quantity, but they play a major part in everyday life. To be sure, numbers determine the time individuals will wake up in the morning, how much money employees earn per hour, what day of the year it is, and much, much more. Additionally, numbers impact everyday living on a much smaller scale. In the grocery store, for instance, numbers determine products' prices, the amount of a product available for purchase, how much money will need to be paid for products, and a whole lot else. To understand larger (and more intimidating numbers), interested persons first need to understand basic numbers, or numbers from one to ten, as they comprise each and every advanced number, or a multi-digit number that indicates a larger amount/quantity. The basic numbers are as follows: One (1) - Example: "He purchased one watermelon from the grocery store." Two (2) - Example: "She bought two types of bread from the store." Three (3) - Example: "He decided to get three bags of onions when he went shopping." Four (4) - Example: "In preparation for the party, Janice bought four cartons of ice cream at the store." Five (5) - Example: "Joe picked up five boxes of cereal from the breakfast aisle." Six (6) - Example: "A pound of beef costs a lot of money at my favorite grocery store." Seven (7) - Example: "Seven of the 10 aisles at my local grocery store contain pasta." Eight (8) - Example: "I bought eight cookies for the price of four at the store." Nine (9) - Example: "There were only nine loafs of bread left at the grocery store." Ten (10) - Example: "Ten pineapples sure is a lot, don't you think?" After ten, eleven (11), twelve (12), thirteen (13), fourteen (14), fifteen (15), sixteen (16), seventeen (17), eighteen (18), nineteen (19), and twenty (20) follow. These numbers are seen less in grocery stores, as most prices are 10 dollars or less; it is however worth knowing these numbers, generally and, in terms of grocery shopping, for when the bill must be paid. After twenty, numbers such as twenty-five (25), fifty (50), seventy-five (75), and one hundred (100) follow. So long as one knows the core number, or the number situated in the tens or hundreds position that determines the general amount, understanding these more complicated numbers won't be difficult. For example thirty-three (33) is simply "thirty" plus three; sixty-seven is "sixty" plus seven; and sixty-nine is simply "sixty" plus nine. 1/2 Did you understand the text? 1) Which of the following best describes numbers? a) Digits b) Roman numerals c) Numerical representations of quantity d) None of the above 2) Why are basic numbers important? a) They aren't; only advanced numbers are important b) They play an important role in daily living c) They are useful when reading advanced numbers d) B and C 3) Basic numbers are best defined as: a) Simple numbers b) Numbers from one to ten c) Numbers greater than ten d) None of the Above 4) Which of the following is not a basic number? a) 6 b) 1 c) 12 d) 9 5) 178 can be broken down into which of the following groups of numbers? a) 100 plus 70 plus 8 b) 156 plus 20 plus 5 c) 160 plus 30 plus 9 d) B and C Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/numbers/ - Solution: 1) c 2) d 3) b 4) c 5) d 2/2 The city where I live (A2) My name is Clark, and I will tell you about my city. I live in an apartment. In my city, there is a post office where people mail letters. On Monday, I go to work. I work at the post office. Everyone shops for food at the grocery store. They also eat at the restaurant. The restaurant serves pizza and ice cream. My friends and I go to the park. We like to play soccer at the park. On Fridays, we go to the cinema to see a movie. Children don't go to school on the weekend. Each day, people go to the hospital when they are sick. The doctors and nurses take care of them. The police keep everyone safe. I am happy to live in my city. Did you understand the text? 1) Where does Clark work? in an apartment in the grocery store in the cinema in the post office a) b) c) d) 2) Where do people buy food? in the grocery store in the hospital in the park in the cinema a) b) c) d) 3) When does Clark go to the cinema? Monday Friday Each day The weekend a) b) c) d) 4) Who keeps everyone safe? The nurses The children The police The doctors a) b) c) d) 5) How does Clark feel about his city? Sad Happy Sick Angry a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/city/ Solution: 1) d 2) a 3) b 4) c 5) b  The pet store (A2) George is at the pet store, looking at what kind of pet he might want to get for his birthday. George asked if he could have a horse, but his parents said no because horses are too big. First, he sees dogs and cats. Baby dogs are called puppies. Baby cats are called kittens. George likes them because they are easy to take care of and can play a lot, but they will get bigger. George wants a small pet. Then George sees animals that have to live in a cage. He sees rabbits, guinea pigs, and mice. Mice are what you call more than one mouse. He likes these animals because they are small. Birds live in cages too. George sees a parrot and a canary. He likes them all, but he doesn't want to clean the cage. George sees the animals in tanks. The tanks full of water have fish and turtles in them. He thinks about a goldfish but decides he likes the turtles more. There are also tanks with rocks and sand that have snakes, spiders, and scorpions, but George is afraid of them. George likes the turtles best, but they won't fit in the little fishbowls. Turtles need bigger tanks, so they can swim sometimes and hide sometimes. George decides he wants to get a turtle for his birthday. He buys a book on how to take care of a turtle and a list of what types of turtles the store has. Did you understand the text? 1) What kind of pet did George want, but his parents said no because they were too big? A Puppy A Kitten A Horse A Rabbit a) b) c) d) 2) What kind of pet does NOT live in a cage? Rabbits Guinea pigs Mice/Mouse Goldfish a) b) c) d) 3) Which kind of pet did NOT scare George? The Scorpions The Canaries The Spiders The Snakes a) b) c) d) 4) What kind of pet did George decide he wanted to get for his birthday? Turtle Parrot Goldfish Mouse a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/pets/ Solution: 1) c 2) d 3) b 4) a A great summer vacation (A2) I just returned from the greatest summer vacation! It was so fantastic, I never wanted it to end. I spent eight days in Paris, France. My best friends, Henry and Steve, went with me. We had a beautiful hotel room in the Latin Quarter, and it wasn't even expensive. We had a balcony with a wonderful view. We visited many famous tourist places. My favorite was the Louvre, a well-known museum. I was always interested in art, so that was a special treat for me. The museum is so huge, you could spend weeks there. Henry got tired walking around the museum and said "Enough! I need to take a break and rest.” We took lots of breaks and sat in cafes along the river Seine. The French food we ate was delicious. The wines were tasty, too. Steve's favorite part of the vacation was the hotel breakfast. He said he would be happy if he could eat croissants like those forever. We had so much fun that we're already talking about our next vacation! Did you understand the text? 1) What city did they go to for their summer vacation? Lyon Louvre Paris Latin a) b) c) d) 2) How long was the summer vacation? Eight weeks Eight days One week Two weeks a) b) c) d) 3) What did their hotel room have? A balcony A refrigerator A view of the metro A bottle of wine a) b) c) d) 4) Who got tired walking in the Louvre museum? Steve Harry Seine Henry a) b) c) d) 5) What did Steve enjoy the most? The wine and the food The cafes along the river Seine The Latin Quarter and the balcony The hotel breakfast and the croissants a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/summer-vacation/ Solution: 1) c 2) b 3) a 4) d 5) d  At school (A2) Lucas goes to school every day of the week. He has many subjects to go to each school day: English, art, science, mathematics, gym, and history. His mother packs a big backpack full of books and lunch for Lucas. His first class is English, and he likes that teacher very much. His English teacher says that he is a good pupil, which Lucas knows means that she thinks he is a good student. His next class is art. He draws on paper with crayons and pencils and sometimes uses a ruler. Lucas likes art. It is his favorite class. His third class is science. This class is very hard for Lucas to figure out, but he gets to work with his classmates a lot, which he likes to do. His friend, Kyle, works with Lucas in science class, and they have fun. Then Lucas gets his break for lunch. He sits with Kyle while he eats. The principal, or the headmaster as some call him, likes to walk around and talk to students during lunch to check that they are all behaving. The next class is mathematics, which most of the students just call math. Kyle has trouble getting a good grade in mathematics, but the teacher is very nice and helpful. His fourth class is gym. It is just exercising. History is his last class of the day Lucas has a hard time staying awake. Many lessons are boring, and he is very tired after doing gym. Did you understand the text? 1) What is the class that is Lucas' teacher tells him he is a good pupil? English Art Science Gym a) b) c) d) 2) What class that Lucas goes to is all about exercising? Science History Gym Art a) b) c) d) 3) What is the one where Lucas draws on paper with pencils and crayons and sometimes uses a ruler? History Science Mathematics Art a) b) c) d) 4) Who is the person that check on the students during lunch to make sure that all the students are well behaved? Teacher Classmate Friend Principal/Headmaster a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/at-school/ Solution: 1) a 2) c 3) d 4) d  Days of the week (A2) There are seven days of the week, or uniquely named 24-hour periods designed to provide scheduling context and make time more easily measureable. Each of these days is identifiable by specific plans, moods, and tones. Monday is viewed by many to be the "worst" day of the week, as it marks the return to work following the weekend, when most full-time employees are given two days off. Most students attend school in the morning and return home in the afternoon (usually from about eight until three or seven until two), and most workers go to work in the morning and return home in the evening (usually from nine to five or eight to four). Tuesday is the second day of the week, and is in many ways similar to Monday. Not a whole lot changes, schedule-wise, between Tuesday and Monday; most individuals go to school or work and return home to watch television, play video games, make plans with friends, spend time with family, read, or engage in a similar leisure-related activity. Wednesday is the third day of the week, and serves as the "middle" of the work week; some individuals refer to Wednesday as "hump day," as once its workday is complete, employees will have passed the work-week "hump," and will be on the downturn, as only two days on the job will remain in the week. Thursday is the fourth day of the week, and is viewed favorably by many, as it's rather close to the end of the work week. Friday is the fifth day of the week, and marks the end of the workweek and school-week for the vast majority of employees and students. By Friday afternoon/evening, most students/workers cannot wait to leave and go home, as they won't have to report back to school/work until Monday. Saturday is perhaps the most highly regarded day of the week. Because Sunday follows it (and there is presumably no work or school to attend, for most individuals), everyone is free to stay out (or awake) until late at night, having fun with plans or other leisure-related activities. To be sure, Saturday is generally thought of as a day to partake in hobbies that couldn't otherwise be enjoyed during the regular week. Sunday is the final day of the week, and is used by most as a day of rest. Fewer late-night plans are made on Sundays, compared to Saturdays, as most individuals have to wake up for work or school on Monday morning. Did you understand the text? 1) How many days of the week are there? six three seven five a) b) c) d) 1/2 More questions about the text: What is the weekend? Saturday and Sunday Wednesday and Friday Thursday and Sunday Friday and Saturday a) b) c) d) Which day of the week is sometimes referred to as "hump day"? Saturday Thursday Wednesday Tuesday a) b) c) d) Which day of the week is perhaps the most exciting, in terms of plans and activities? Monday Saturday Sunday Wednesday a) b) c) d) A regular work week begins on which day? Thursday Sunday Friday Monday a) b) c) d) 2/2 Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/days/ Solution: 1) c 2) a 3) c 4) b 5) d  Doctor (A2) Doctor Klein: Good morning, Cecilia, how are you feeling today? Cecilia: I do not feel very well, Doctor Klein. I hope that you can treat my illness. Doctor Klein: I'm sorry that you feel very sick. Tell me some of your symptoms so that I can give you a proper diagnosis. Cecilia: I have not felt well since yesterday afternoon. The symptoms began with a headache and a gradual sore throat. I drank tea with lemon and honey, and I went to bed early. However, I am extremely exhausted, and I don't feel any better today. Doctor Klein: I have seen these symptoms recently in some of my other patients. I'll check your temperature and examine your throat in order to give you a proper diagnosis. Cecilia: Thank you, Doctor. Doctor Klein: Open up and say "Ahhhhhh...” Cecilia: "Ahhhhhh...” Doctor Klein: Oh, my! I can already see that your throat is very red. Your temperature of 100 degrees indicates that you are running a mild fever. I am afraid that you might have the flu. Cecilia: What is the best way to cure my symptoms? Doctor Klein: You will need plenty of rest, and you should drink fluids frequently in order to stay hydrated. You've also just started to show symptoms, so I can prescribe you a medication that can reduce fever and shorten the duration of your illness. Cecilia: Should I stay home from work as well? Doctor Klein: Yes, you should remain in bed until the fever breaks. You should also wait until 24 hours after the fever has broken before you return to work. You do not want to risk getting your coworkers sick as well. Cecilia: I suppose I will just take it easy and relax for a couple of days. Thank you, doctor, for all of your help! Doctor Klein: No problem! Try your best to rest for a couple of days. I hope you feel better soon! Did you understand the text? 1) When did Cecilia begin to feel ill? last night this morning yesterday morning yesterday afternoon a) b) c) d) 2) Which of the following is not one of Cecilia's symptoms: sore throat vomiting exhaustion headache a) b) c) d) 3) Dr. Klein diagnoses Cecilia with which illness? the common cold the flu hay fever a head injury a) b) c) d) 4) How long does Cecilia have to wait until she can return to work? 15 minutes after taking her medication 100 minutes after her medical appointment 24 hours after the fever breaks 72 hours after her initial symptoms began a) b) c) d) 1/2 More questions about the text: 5) Which question does Doctor Klein first ask Cecilia? Why are you late for your appointment? How are you feeling today? What are your symptoms? What medications have you taken? a) b) c) d) 6) What did Cecilia do before going to bed last night? Schedule her appointment with Dr. Klein Drink tea with lemon and honey Take a non-prescription medication Make a list of her symptoms a) b) c) d) 7) What object would Dr. Klein most likely use to take Cecilia's temperature? a cotton swab a thermometer a stethoscope a thermostat a) b) c) d) 8) Why does Cecilia have to drink plenty of water? To reduce her fever To prevent vomiting To clear her throat To stay hydrated a) b) c) d) 2/2 Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/doctor/ Solution: 1) d 2) b 3) b 4) c 5) b 6) b 7) b 8) d  Going to a restaurant (A2) Sandra and Paul are at a steak restaurant. A waiter greets them. "Do you know what you would like to drink?" the waiter asks. "Water and orange juice,” Sandra says. "Thank you. Here are your menus," the waiter says. The waiter brings water for Paul and orange juice for Sandra. "What would you like to order?" the waiter asks. "I would like a 12-ounce steak and mashed potatoes," Paul says. "The same thing, but with green beans," Sandra says. "And two orders of garlic bread," Paul says. "Great. You should have it in soon," the waiter says. The waiter returns after an hour. "Sorry for your wait. Here are two orders of 12-ounce steaks with mashed potatoes and garlic bread,” the waiter says. "I asked for green beans with mine," Sandra says. "I'm sorry, I'll get those for you," the waiter says. The waiter quickly returns with Sandra's green beans. Did you understand the text? 1) What kind of restaurant did Paul and Sandra go to? a fast food restaurant a steak restaurant a pizza restaurant an Italian restaurant a) b) c) d) 2) What did Paul and Sandra order to drink? soda for Paul and beer for Sandra water for Paul and orange juice for Sandra beer for Paul and water for Sandra beer for Paul and orange juice for Sandra a) b) c) d) 3) What kind of steaks did Paul and Sandra order? two eight-ounce steaks two twenty-ounce steaks two twelve-ounce steaks two eighteen-ounce steaks a) b) c) d) 4) What was wrong with Sandra's order? she got coleslaw when she wanted green beans she got green beans when she wanted corn she got mashed potatoes when she wanted green beans she got green beans when she wanted a salad a) b) c) d) Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/going-to-restaurant/ Solution: 1) b 2) b 3) c 4) c  Going to the Supermarket (A2) Martha is at the grocery store, getting ready for a house party. She has a list of what she needs with her as she goes along. The first section she comes has produce. Martha sees apples, bananas, cherries, grapes, and strawberries. She checks her list: - 6 apples - 1 bag of cherries - 1 bag of grapes - 2 cartons of strawberries Martha get her items and looks the bananas. They are on sale for much cheaper than they are normally. She picks 3 bananas. Next are vegetables. She sees potatoes, carrots, tomatoes, onions, mushrooms, and salad in bags. She checks her list: - 5 pounds of potatoes - 6 carrots - 4 tomatoes - 2 onions - 4 mushrooms As she is putting her items into her cart, Martha checks the many bags of salad and chooses 2 of them. She pushes her cart ahead. The next section is meat and dairy. She sees meat, fish, cheese, eggs, and milk. She checks her list: - 2 fish (salmon) - 1 block of cheese (cheddar) - 1 dozen eggs - 2 gallons of milk She looks at the meat that is on sale and chooses a 5-pound roll of hamburger. She gets the rest of the items in that section. She still needs rice, bread, salt, sugar, and flour. She gets: - 2 bags of rice - 4 loaves of bread - a 2-pound bag of sugar - a 2-pound bag of flour Martha then realizes that she has forgotten something. She runs back and gets 1 container of salt and then rushes to the checkout. She puts her groceries into her car and leaves. 1/2 Did you understand the text? 1) What item did Martha pick up on sale in the fruits and vegetables section? Six apples Three bananas Four mushrooms Two bags of salad a) b) c) d) 2) Which item did Martha buy 5 pounds of in the meat and dairy section? Five pounds of meat Five pounds of fish Five pounds of cheese Five pounds of milk a) b) c) d) 3) How much bread did Martha get while she was shopping at the grocery store? Two loaves of bread One loaf of bread Four loaves of bread Three loaves of bread a) b) c) d) 4) What item did Martha have to go back for at the end of her shopping trip? one dozen eggs a bag of cherries a block of cheese one container of salt a) b) c) d) 2/2 Source: https://lingua.com/english/reading/supermarket/ Solution: 1) b 2) a 3) c 4) d . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 1 1. Match the questions and answers. What’s your name? Where are you from? How old are you? When is your birthday? Where do you live? What do you do? What’s your dream job? What are your hobbies? What’s your favourite food? What’s your favourite drink? What’s your favourite sport? My birthday is on the 1st of August. I’m a student. I’m from London. My name is Tony. My dream job is doctor. I’m 19 years old. My favourite drink is tea. My favourite sport is rugby. I live in Canterbury. My favourite food is pasta. My hobbies are drawing and swimming. 2. Read the text. Hi, my name is David. I’m 26 years old. My birthday is on the 11th of May. I always have a big party for my birthday. My family and I are from Kenya. My family lives in Rochester and I live in Canterbury. My house is in Hales Place. I work as a builder but my dream is to be a firefighter. My hobbies are martial arts and cooking. I also like hanging out with my friends. We usually watch films and listen to music. Sometimes, we go to a café. Coffee is my favourite drink. I often cook my favourite food - fish and chips - for my friends and family. Everyone loves my cooking. A2 . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 2 3. Answer the questions about David. How old is David? ................................................................................................... What are David’s hobbies? ................................................................................................... Where is David from? ................................................................................................... When is David’s birthday? ................................................................................................... What’s David’s favourite food? ................................................................................................... Where does David live? ................................................................................................... What’s David’s dream job? ................................................................................................... What’s David’s favourite drink? ................................................................................................... What do David and his friends usually do? ................................................................................................... David is 26 years old. 4. Write your introduction. You can use David’s text and the boxes on page 3 for help. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... Hi, my name is . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 3 JOBS: • Builder • Teacher • Waiter/Waitress • Cleaner • Electrician • Mechanic • Police officer • Doctor • Plumber • Driver • Firefighter • Hairdresser • Shop assistant • Nurse • Social worker • Cook • Actor/actress • Lawyer SPORTS: • Football • Cricket • Swimming • Martial arts • Skateboarding • Rugby • Table tennis • Basketball • Chess DRINKS: • Juice • Wine • Smoothie • Fizzy drinks • Beer • Tea • Coffee HOBBIES: • Reading • Dancing • Hanging out with friends • Drawing • Cooking • Playing sports • Browsing the Internet • Watching films • Playing video games • Going to museums • Listening to music • Going to the gym FOOD: • Pizza • Kebab • Chicken • Rice • Stew • Shepherd’s pie • Mac & cheese • Salad • Pasta • Burger • Sandwich • Curry • Soup • Fish & chips 5. Write correct questions for the answers. ............................................ Her name is Aisha. ............................................ I’m a plumber. ............................................ His favourite drink is juice. ............................................ They live in London. What’s her name? ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 4 7. Game! 6. Interview your partner using questions in activity 1. Write the answers below. Then, introduce your partner to the class. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ............................................ Our hobby is skateboarding. ............................................ He’s 14 years old. ............................................ Her dream job is actress. ............................................ My favourite food is curry. ............................................ Her birthday is on the 7th of March. ............................................ They’re from Senegal. . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 1 Introductions and hobbies (A2) Teacher’s notes Task 7. There are two sets of cards (see next page), each with half of the information missing. Students are each given a card. The task is to find the person with the card containing the other half of the information. Both students complete their cards using the questions and answers from the previous activities. . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 2 NAME: Barbara COUNTRY: Poland BIRTHDAY: 16th of February DISLIKES: cleaning FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: swimming ...................... AGE: ...................... HOBBY: ......................... DREAM JOB: ......................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: ......................... FAVOURITE DRINK: ......................... FAVOURITE FOOD: mac & cheese NAME: Tom COUNTRY: .................. BIRTHDAY: .................. DISLIKES: spicy food FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: football Exeter AGE: 19 HOBBY: ...................... DREAM JOB: ......................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: rock FAVOURITE DRINK: ......................... FAVOURITE FOOD: kebab NAME: Arun COUNTRY: India BIRTHDAY: 7th of March DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ...................... .................. AGE: .................. HOBBY: reading DREAM JOB: ......................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: classical FAVOURITE DRINK: ...................... FAVOURITE FOOD: salad NAME: Olaiya COUNTRY: .................. BIRTHDAY: .................. DISLIKES: horror films FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ......................... Canterbury AGE: 20 HOBBY: ......................... DREAM JOB: teacher FAVOURITE MUSIC: ......................... FAVOURITE DRINK: white wine FAVOURITE FOOD: ......................... NAME: Barbara COUNTRY: .................... BIRTHDAY: .................... DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ...................... Cracow AGE: 18 HOBBY: cooking DREAM JOB: driver FAVOURITE MUSIC: hip-hop FAVOURITE DRINK: red wine FAVOURITE FOOD: ...................... NAME: Tom COUNTRY: England BIRTHDAY: 23rd of April DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ...................... ...................... AGE: 19 HOBBY: going to museums DREAM JOB: waiter FAVOURITE MUSIC: ...................... FAVOURITE DRINK: beer FAVOURITE FOOD: ...................... NAME: Arun COUNTRY: ................... BIRTHDAY: .................. DISLIKES: dancing FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: table tennis Bengaluru AGE: 20 HOBBY: ...................... DREAM JOB: electrician FAVOURITE MUSIC: ......................... FAVOURITE DRINK: fizzy drinks FAVOURITE FOOD: ......................... NAME: Olaiya COUNTRY: Scotland BIRTHDAY: 3rd of November DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: chess ...................... AGE: ...................... HOBBY: drawing DREAM JOB: ...................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: jazz FAVOURITE DRINK: ...................... FAVOURITE FOOD: rice with beef . © 2020 The English Hub for Refugees 3 NAME: Milot COUNTRY: .................... BIRTHDAY: 8th of January DISLIKES: fish and chips FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ...................... Berat AGE: ...................... HOBBY: watching films DREAM JOB: ...................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: R&B FAVOURITE DRINK: coffee FAVOURITE FOOD: ...................... NAME: Shahgul COUNTRY: Afghanistan BIRTHDAY: 22nd of August DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: cricket ...................... AGE: ...................... HOBBY: reading DREAM JOB: ...................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: ...................... FAVOURITE DRINK: orange juice FAVOURITE FOOD: burger and chips NAME: Ida COUNTRY: ................... BIRTHDAY: 4th of July DISLIKES: soup FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ...................... Helsinki AGE: ...................... HOBBY: ...................... DREAM JOB: police officer FAVOURITE MUSIC: pop FAVOURITE DRINK: ...................... FAVOURITE FOOD: curry NAME: Isaias COUNTRY: .................... BIRTHDAY: 12th of November DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: ...................... Asmara AGE: 19 HOBBY: hanging out with friends DREAM JOB: ...................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: hip-hop FAVOURITE DRINK: ...................... FAVOURITE FOOD: stew with chicken NAME: Milot COUNTRY: Albania BIRTHDAY: .................... DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: skateboarding ...................... AGE: 17 HOBBY: ...................... DREAM JOB: social worker FAVOURITE MUSIC: ...................... FAVOURITE DRINK: ...................... FAVOURITE FOOD: shepherd’s pie NAME: Shahgul COUNTRY: ...................... BIRTHDAY: ...................... DISLIKES: action films FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: Balkh AGE: ...................... 18 HOBBY: ...................... DREAM JOB: cook FAVOURITE MUSIC: folk FAVOURITE DRINK: .................... FAVOURITE FOOD: ...................... NAME: Ida COUNTRY: Finland BIRTHDAY: ...................... DISLIKES: ...................... FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: basketball ...................... AGE: 16 HOBBY: playing video games DREAM JOB: ...................... FAVOURITE MUSIC: ...................... FAVOURITE FOOD: FAVOURITE DRINK: smoothie ...................... NAME: Isaias COUNTRY: Eritrea BIRTHDAY: ...................... DISLIKES: football FAVOURITE SPORT: CITY: martial arts ...................... AGE: ...................... HOBBY: hanging out with friends DREAM JOB: mechanic FAVOURITE MUSIC: ...................... FAVOURITE DRINK: tea FAVOURITE FOOD: ...................... My name ____ David. is I ____ 26 years old. am My birthday ____ on the 11th of May. is I always ____ a party for by birthday. have My family and I ____ from Kenya. are My family ____ in Rochester. lives I ____ in Canterbury. live My house ____ in Hales Place. is I ____ as a builder but my dream is to be a firefighter. work My hobbies ____ martial arts and dancing. are I also ____ hanging out with my friends. like We usually ____ films together. watch Sometimes my friends and I ____ to a cafe. go My favourite drink ____ coffee. is I often ____ fish and chips for my family. cook Everybody ____ my cooking. loves My favourite dish ____ shepherd's pie. Is  My name is Abdul. What is your name? I am from Vietnam. Where are you from? I am 18 years old. How old are you? My birthday is on the 3rd of April. When is your birthday? I live in London. Where do you live? I am a mechanic. What do you do? My dream job is teacher. What is your dream job? My hobbies are cooking and dancing. What are your hobbies? My favourite food is roast chicken. What is your favourite food? My favourite drink is orange juice. What is your favourite drink? My favourite sport is cricket. What is your favourite sport?  They are from Eritrea. Where are they from? His dream job is actor. What is his dream job? Their favourite sport is football. What is their favourite sport? Her name is Sarah. What is her name? His favourite food is fish and chips. What is his favourite food? We are 25 years old. How old are you? She is an electrician. What does she do? Our hobbies are listening to music and playing video games. What are your hobbies? Her favourite drink is coffee. What is her favourite drink? His birthday is on the 22nd of July. When is his birthday? W e liv e in G l a s g o w. W h e r e d o y o u liv e ?  actor mechanic waiter teacher social worker shop assistant police officer plumber nurse lawyer actress hairdresser firefighter electrician driver doctor cook cleaner builder waitress  reading dancing hanging out with friends drawing cooking playing sports browsing the Internet watching films playing video games going to museums listening to music going to the gym  basketball chess cricket football martial arts ping pong rugby skateboarding swimming . © 2020 . 1 A2 1. Match the activities with the correct picture. ................... ................................... ........................... ........................... ........................... ........................... ................... ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................. ....................................... going running going to the gym going to school watching TV playing sports having a doctor’s appointment having lunch studying at the library meeting a friend cooking cleaning walking my dog working doing the dishes shopping ................... ................... ........................... cooking . © 2020 . 2 To talk about daily routines and plans, we use present simple and present continuous. For example: - I usually get up at 7am is a daily routine (present simple). - I am getting up at 7am tomorrow is a plan (present continuous). Remember, we form present simple with the base form of the verb. We form present continuous with the present of to be and a verb+ing. Positive: She is walking. to be verb + ing Present simple Present continuous Question: Is she walking? to be verb + ing Negative: She is not walking. to be not verb + ing Positive: She walks. verb Question: Does she walk? to do to do verb Negative: She does not walk. not verb I am walking you are he / she / it is we / you / they are I walk you he / she / it walks we / you / they walk go 2. Complete the sentences with the verb in the present simple or present continuous. I always go to bed late on Tuesdays. I .................... (go) to bed at 1 AM. Tomorrow, Marcel ......................... (go) to London. He .......................... (leave) early. My lessons usually ......................... (finish) early, but tomorrow, they ......................... (finish) at 6:30 PM. I don’t ......................... (work) on Saturdays. I usually ......................... (watch TV). We ......................... (go) to the gym on Friday and .............................. (play) football on Sunday. Aisha and Tony ....................... (study) at the library on Wednesdays. . © 2020 . 3 I can’t meet you tomorrow because I ......................... (go) to the doctor’s. I have a doctor’s appointment. Next week, Tony and I ....................... (study) together. We ....................... (prepare) for a test. Clara ....................... (walk) her dog every day. They usually ..................... (walk) in the park. I ........................ (do) the dishes tonight and my brother ......................... (do) the dishes tomorrow. 3. Match the questions with the correct answers. Do you want to meet on Monday afternoon? Do you have plans for the weekend? What are you doing on Tuesday morning? When do you have English lessons? Are you busy tonight? Are you free at 4 PM on Sunday? What are you doing tomorrow? Are you going to the cinema later? Do you want to have dinner with us? I am working on Tuesday morning. Sorry, I have plans at 4 PM on Sunday. I have English lessons every day at 10 AM. I am going to the doctor’s tomorrow. Yes, I want to meet on Monday afternoon. No, thank you, I am not hungry. Yes, I am going to the cinema later. No, I do not have plans for the weekend. No, I am not busy tonight. Hi, Tony! ............................ at 11 AM tomorrow? I have a doctor’s appointment at 11, but .............................. after that. ............................... to the library to study. ..................................... with us? Sure! See you at the library! 4. Listen and complete the sentences. . © 2020 . 4 ............................................ tonight, Clara? ................................................ tonight. I am very tired. Do you usually watch TV on Fridays? Yes, but sometimes, .................................. . Hi, Marcel! .................................... on Tuesday evening? Yes, I am free. ............................... dinner for all our friends. Do you want to have dinner with us? Yes, thank you! Hi, Aisha! .................................. this afternoon? I have an English lesson at 1 PM and I am working at 4:45 PM. ........................................... does the English lesson finish? ....................................... 2:25 PM. .................................. all day today. Do you want to study with me? Sure, that sounds great! . © 2020 . 5 Hi, my name is Oriana. I am a doctor. On weekdays, I get up at 5:30 AM and have some coffee and toast for breakfast. I work from at 6:30 AM until 4 PM. I always have lunch at 12:30 PM. My favourite lunch is salad and tea. After work, I like to cook and watch TV. Sometimes, I have dinner or a drink with my friends. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, I go running or play basketball. On Monday and Wednesday evenings, I go for a walk. I always go to bed at 9 PM. I usually clean my house and visit my family on weekends, but this weekend, I am going to London. On Saturday, I am visiting museums and going to the theatre with my best friend. On Sunday, we are going shopping and walking around London. I am going back home on Sunday evening. 5. Read Oriana’s daily routine and plan for the weekend. 6. Answer the questions about Oriana. At what time does Oriana wake up? ................................................................................................... Is Oriana busy on Tuesdays after work? ................................................................................................... What is Oriana doing on Saturday? ................................................................................................... At what time does Oriana finish work? ................................................................................................... Is Oriana busy on Sunday? ................................................................................................... What does Oriana do on Wednesday evenings? ................................................................................................... At what time does Oriana go to bed? ................................................................................................... When is Oriana going back home? ................................................................................................... She wakes up at 5:30 AM. . © 2020 . 6 7. Write your daily routine and plan for the weekend. You can use Oriana’s for help. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... 8. In pairs and without looking at each other’s timetables, find three slots when you are both free to meet. Use the questions and answers from activity 3 for help. . © 2020 . 1 Daily routines (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on the present simple, the present continuous, or telling the time, please see our A1 resources "Present Simple", "Present Continuous", and “Daily Routines” at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/ resources/ Task 4. Hi, Tony! Are you busy at 11 AM tomorrow? I have a doctor’s appointment at 11, but I am free after that. We are going to the library to study. Do you want to go with us? Sure! See you at the library! What are you doing tonight, Clara? I am watching TV tonight. I am very tired. Do you usually watch TV on Fridays? Yes, but sometimes, I meet my friends. Hi, Marcel! Are you free on Tuesday evening? Yes, I am free. We are cooking dinner for all our friends. Do you want to have dinner with us? Yes, thank you! . © 2020 . 2 Task 8. Students work in pairs: one student receives Timetable 1 and the other student Timetable 2 (see next pages). They must talk to each other to find three separate occasions during the week when they can meet. They can use the questions and answers from activities 3, 4, and 6 as examples. The available time slots are: • Monday: 4:25pm - 6:30pm • Wednesday: 5pm - 8:15pm • Thursday: 9:20am - 11:35am / 3:15pm - 7pm • Saturday: 3pm - 6pm Hi, Aisha! Do you have plans this afternoon? I have an English lesson at 1 PM and I am working at 4:45 PM. At what time does the English lesson finish? It finishes at 2:25 PM. I am studying all day today. Do you want to study with me? Sure, that sounds great! . © 2020 . 3 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 9am - 10:30am Maths lesson 1:10pm - 2:55pm 3pm - 4:25pm English lesson Studying at the library 6:30pm - 7:40pm Swimming Dinner with a 8pm - 10pm friend 8:30am - 10:45am Playing football Driving lesson 12:00pm - 2pm 5:30pm - 7:15pm Music lesson 10am - 5pm Work Going to the Post 8:30am - 9:20am Office 1:20pm - 3:15pm Spanish lesson 7pm - 8:40pm History lesson Getting a haircut 11am - 11:50am 2pm - 7.30pm Work 10.50pm 7:50pm - Meeting friends 6pm - 11pm Friend’s birthday party 8:52am Catching a train to Margate 6:18pm Catching the return train from Margate Timetable 1 . © 2020 . 4 Timetable 2 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 8.45am - 4.15pm Work 7pm - 10pm Gym and dinner with friends 8:30am - 10:45am Playing football 11:20am - 1:55pm English lesson 2:30pm - 4:55pm History lesson 7:30pm - 9:15pm Studying for a test 7.45am - 4.25pm Work 10:25pm 8:15pm - Going to the cinema 11:35am - 12:55pm English lesson 1:20pm - 3:15pm Maths test 9:15am - 9:50am Doctor’s appointment 10:15am - 11:50am English lesson 12:25pm - 13:55pm Maths lesson Playing football 6.55pm - 8:50pm 10am - 11:30am Cleaning the house 12pm - 3pm 6:30pm - 11pm Going shopping Night in 10:45am Breakfast with a friend 12pm - 1pm 5:30pm - 9:30pm Do the shopping Cinema and restaurant with friends  cleaning shopping going running going to the gym doing the dishes walking my dog having lunch going to school meeting a friend working studying at the library having a doctor's appointment watching TV playing sports cooking  I ____ (start) work at 8:30 am every day. start He always ____ (get up) early on Sundays. gets up She ____ (travel) to Birmingham tomorrow at 5 pm. is travelling They always ____ (study) in the library after class. study You usually ____ (work) until very late on Saturdays. work They ____ (play) golf on Friday afternoon. are playing I can't go to the gym tomorrow because I ____ (go) to the doctor's. am going Next week, my friend and I ____ (meet) to go to the beach. are meeting She ____ (ride) her bike in the park every weekend. rides I ____ (make) chicken curry for my flatmates for dinner. am making you / want to meet / next weekend? Do you want to meet next weekend? you / have / plans / for Saturday? Do you have any plans for Saturday? what / you / do / on Sunday afternoon? What are you doing on Sunday afternoon? when / you / start / work? When do you work? when / you / have / English lessons? When do you have English lessons? you / busy / tonight? Are you busy tonight? you / free / tomorrow? Are you free tomorrow? what / you / do / on the 4th of May? What are you doing on the 4th of May? you / do / anything / at 5 pm today? Are you doing anything at 5 pm today? you / come / to the football match / later? Are you coming to the football match later? you / want to eat / lunch / with us? Do you want to eat lunch with us? . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 1 1. Write the descriptions. ...................... ...................... ...................... ...................... Height: Appearance: young old ugly handsome / beautiful young medium height ...................... ...................... ...................... ...................... ...................... ...................... Weight: short tall medium build thin fat A2 . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 2 Hair colour: ............... ............... ............... ............... ............... Hair shape: Eye colour: Hair length: .................... .................... .................... ............... ............... .................... medium length short bald long red black blonde grey brown Facial hair: .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... straight curly beard moustache brown blue green . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 3 2. Write the sentences. To describe a person’s eyes and hair, we use to have. For example, Hamid has a moustache. Clara has curly hair. to have adjective noun noun to have 1) (Julia/old) ............................................ 2) (Julia/grey hair/green eyes) ............................................ 3) (Tony/brown eyes) ............................................ 4) (Tony/thin) ............................................ 5) (Marsha/young) ............................................ 6) (Marsha/brown hair/brown eyes) ............................................................. 7) (Andy/blonde hair/blue eyes) ............................................ 8) (Andy/young/tall) ............................................................. Julia is old. Describing people. To describe a person’s body and age, we use to be. For example, Gary is tall. Aisha is young. to be adjective to be adjective . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 4 3. Answer the questions. Does he have a moustache? ..................................... Does she have long red hair? ............................................... Is he bald? ............................................... Does she have grey hair and brown eyes? .................................................................................... Does she have long curly hair and green eyes? .................................................................................... Does he have long black hair and a beard? .................................................................................... Does he have blonde hair and brown eyes? ................................................... Does she have curly black hair? ................................................... Is he short and thin? ................................................................. Is she young and tall? ................................................................. Is he fat? ................................................................. Is he old? ..................................... No, he is young. Yes, he has a moustache. . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 5 Comparatives and superlatives are used to describe the difference between people or things. Comparatives. If an adjective has one syllable, we usually add -er to the adjective and than after the adjective. For example, Gary is tall. He is taller than Rashida. If an adjective has two or more syllables, we usually use more + adjective + than. For example, Tony is handsome. He is more handsome than Phil. 4. Make these adjectives into comparatives. 5. Answer the questions. long ................................... short ................................... fat ................................... intelligent ................................... young ................................... curly ................................... adjective -er more adjective than than Comparatives and superlatives. dark ......................................... light ......................................... big ......................................... ugly ......................................... beautiful ......................................... old ......................................... Is Tony taller than Rashida? .................................................................. Is Rashida older than Tony? .................................................................. Yes, Tony is taller than Rashida. No, Rashida is younger than Tony. Tony Rashida . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 6 Does Aisha have longer hair than Andy? .......................................................................... Is Julia older than Marsha? .......................................................................... Andy Aisha Julia Marsha Is Phil more handsome than Tony? .......................................................................... Is Gary thinner than Tony? .......................................................................... Is Tony shorter than Gary? .......................................................................... Does Julia have darker hair than Aisha? .......................................................................... Does Hamid have curlier hair than Clara? .......................................................................... Does Hamid have a bigger moustache than Alid? .......................................................................... Phil Tony Tony Gary Julia Aisha Clara Hamid Alid Hamid . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 7 Superlatives. We use superlatives to compare three or more people or objects. They show which person or object is ‘the most’ of something. If an adjective has one syllable, we use the and usually add -est to the adjective. For example, Gary is taller than Rashida and Aisha. Gary is the tallest. If an adjective has two or more syllables, we usually use the + most + adjective. For example, Tony is more handsome than Phil and Dennis. Tony is the most handsome. the -est 6. Make these adjectives into superlatives. 7. Write the sentences using superlatives. adjective the most adjective Alid Clara Hamid Clara / long / hair ............................................................... Clara has the longest hair. long ................................... short ................................... fat ................................... intelligent ................................... young ................................... curly ................................... dark ......................................... light ......................................... big ......................................... ugly ......................................... beautiful ......................................... old ......................................... . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 8 Gary Rashida Tony Phil Julia Aisha Tony / fat ............................................................... Rashida / short ............................................................... Gary / old ............................................................... Aisha / beautiful ............................................................... Phil / ugly ............................................................... Julia / light / hair ............................................................... Hamid / big / moustache ............................................................... Andy / young ............................................................... Alid Andy Hamid 8. Listen and find the correct person. . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 9 9. True or false. 10. Complete the sentences with your information. Person 1 is the shortest. TRUE / FALSE Person 2 has short brown hair. TRUE / FALSE Person 3 has long curly hair. TRUE / FALSE Person 4 is short and old. TRUE / FALSE Person 5 is the tallest in the group. TRUE / FALSE Person 6 is tall and thin. TRUE / FALSE My name is .................................. . I am .................................. and ................................. . (height) (hair length and colour) (eye colour) (weight) My friend’s name is .................................. . (height) (hair length and colour) (eye colour) (weight) I have .................................. hair and ................................. eyes. He/she is .................................. and ................................. . He/she has .................................. hair and ................................. eyes. Are you taller than your friend? ...................................................................................................... Are you older than your friend? ...................................................................................................... Do you have longer hair than your friend? ......................................................................................................  . © 2019 The English Hub for Refugees 1 Text: Person 1: This person is short and thin. She is the youngest and the shortest in the group. She has long straight black hair and brown eyes. Person 2: This person has short brown hair and a big beard. He has the shortest hair in the group. He is thin and of a medium height. He has brown eyes. Person 3: This person has short curly hair and brown eyes. He is young and of a medium height. He is fat. Person 4: This person is young and short. She has straight black medium length hair and brown eyes. Person 5: This person has long curly red hair and green eyes. She has the longest hair in the group. She is tall and of a medium weight. Person 6: This person has brown medium length hair and green eyes. He is of a medium weight. He is the tallest person in the group. Describing people (A2) Teacher’s notes Task 8 Students mark the person they think is being described.  Is he of medium height? No, he is tall. Is she short? Yes, she is short. Is she short? No, she is of medium height. Is he thin? No, he is fat. Is he of medium build? Yes, he is of medium build. Is he fat? No, he is thin. Is she young? No, she is old. Is she young? Yes, she is young. Are they old? No, they are young. Is he handsome? No, he is ugly. Do they have black hair? No, they have brown hair. Does she have red hair? No, she has black hair. Does he have long hair? No, he is bald. Does she have short hair? No, she has medium length hair. Does he have long hair? No, he has short hair. Does she have straight hair? No, she has curly hair. Does he have a beard? No, he has a moustache. Does he have green eyes? No, he has blue eyes. Does she have blue eyes? No, she has brown eyes. Does he have green eyes and red hair? No, he has green eyes and grey hair. Does she have brown eyes and brown hair? Yes, she has brown eyes and brown hair. Does he have brown hair? No, he has blonde hair. Alid has a ____ moustache than Hamid. (small) smaller Clara has ____ hair than Hamid. (long) longer Julia is ____ than Aisha. (old) older Gary is ____ than Tony. (thin) thinner Marsha is ____ than Julia. (pretty) prettier Tony is ____ ____ than Phil. (handsome) more handsome Julia is ____ than Marsha. (funny) funnier Andy has ____ hair than Aisha. (light) lighter Tony is ____ than Rashida. (tall) taller Clara is ____ ____ than Hamid. (intelligent) more intelligent  Clara has ____ ____ hair. (long) the longest Rashida is ____ ____. (short) the shortest Julia is ____ ____ ____. (intelligent) the most intelligent Julia is ____ ____. (old) the oldest Andy has ____ ____ moustache. (small) the smallest Hamid is ____ ____. (funny) the funniest Tony is ____ ____. (fat) the fattest Aisha has ____ ____ hair. (dark) the darkest Hamid has ____ ____ moustache. (big) the biggest Aisha is ____ ____ ____. (beautiful) the most beautiful A n d y h a s _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ h air. ( lig h t ) t h e lig h t e s t Does Alid have a bigger moustache than Hamid? No, Hamid has a bigger moustache than Alid. Does Hamid have curlier hair than Clara? No, Clara has curlier hair than Hamid. Does Julia have darker hair than Aisha? No, Aisha has darker hair than Julia. Is Tony thinner than Gary? No, Gary is thinner than Tony. Is Phil more handsome than Tony? No, Tony is more handsome than Gary. Is Julia older than Marsha? Yes, Julia is older than Marsha. Does Andy have shorter hair than Aisha? Yes, Andy has shorter hair than Aisha. Is Rashida taller than Tony? No, Tony is taller than Rashida. Is Hamid younger than Alid? Yes, Hamid is younger than Alid. Is Tony fatter than Gary? Yes, Tony is fatter than Gary. Does Alid have the biggest moustache? No, Hamid has the biggest moustache. Is Phil the oldest? No, Julia is the oldest. Is Tony the shortest? No, Rashida is the shortest. Does Hamid have the longest hair? No, Clara has the longest hair. Does Aisha have the shortest hair? No, Phil has the shortest hair. Hi, can I ____ you? help How ____ are the carrots? much The carrots ____ £1 per kilogram. are How ____ carrots would you like? many ____ much is the coconut milk? How The coconut milk ____ 70 pence. is ____ I also have a bottle of water, please? Can Would you ____ anything else? like That's ____ , thank you. all Would you like a ____? bag Can I ____ a bag, please? have Would you like to ____ by cash or by card? pay I will pay by ____, please. cash Would ____ like a receipt? You  Hi, can I ____ you? help How ____ are the carrots? much The carrots ____ £1 per kilogram. are How ____ carrots would you like? many ____ much is the coconut milk? How The coconut milk ____ 70 pence. is ____ I also have a bottle of water, please? Can Would you ____ anything else? like That's ____ , thank you. all Would you like a ____? bag Can I ____ a bag, please? have Would you like to ____ by cash or by card? pay I will pay by ____, please. cash Would ____ like a receipt? You  I usually have an egg sandwich for breakfast. What do you usually have for breakfast? No, I don't drink tea in the morning. Do you drink tea in the morning? I usually drink coffee in the afternoon. What do you usually drink in the afternoon? I usually eat soup for lunch. What do you usually eat for lunch? I usually drink water after lunch. What do you usually drink after lunch? I usually have rice or pasta for dinner. What do you usually have for dinner? Yes, I usually have a light lunch. Do you usually have a light lunch? My favourite fruit is mango. What is your favourite fruit? No, I don't drink coffee in the evening. Do you drink coffee in the evening? Yes, I usually have a healthy dinner. Do you usually have a healthy dinner?   tea coffee milk juice smoothie fizzy drinks water beer wine  bread cereal cheese butter eggs sugar salt pepper oil vinegar  apple pear banana orange lemon peach strawberries grapes mango coconut pineapple cherries plum cake pie brownie muffin biscuits pancakes ice cream chocolate  beef lamb chicken pork ham bacon sausages seafood cod tuna salmon   potato tomato carrot onion corn garlic mushrooms lettuce pepper peas cucumber soup stew curry pasta pizza salad sandwich burger fish and chips pie rice  . © 2019 . 1 Food and drink (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on food and drink vocabulary, please see our A1 resource "Food and Drink" at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/ resources/ Task 5. Listening script. Students listen to the texts and answer the questions. If necessary, each text can be read separately, allowing students to answer the relevant questions before moving on to the next text (breakfast: questions 1-3, lunch: questions 4-6, dinner: questions 7-9). Breakfast: I usually have a small breakfast. I usually eat a banana or cereal with milk and drink coffee. Sometimes, I eat a sandwich or a fruit salad, but I never cook eggs in the morning. I never eat meat for breakfast, either. Lunch: For lunch, I usually go to a café. My favourite café makes delicious soups, so I usually have a soup. Sometimes, I have a salad for lunch, but I never have burgers or pizza. I also like to have fruit for lunch, so I usually have an orange or an apple. After lunch, I usually drink coffee or tea, but sometimes, I have a fizzy drink. Dinner: I usually have dinner at home because I like cooking. I usually have a large dinner like a burger with a salad or fries. Sometimes, I like to cook beef stew with lots of vegetables. If I don’t cook at home, then I have pizza or fish and chips. For dessert, I sometimes have cake or biscuits. Sometimes I drink juice or milk, but I never have coffee for dinner. . © 2019 . 1 A2 1. Find the names of these foods in the word search. T A M L E V M L A S R E J L Y A G E S O M A U L T W G U E U B R A C A K E A S E E A I T B S T T E T O N S N H M J C T E A T O R V A W W O W R O E U A L H R E N E S A L A D O N C E E U E A T A G T O M A T O E S T N B L W I N E E I S U J M C C U C U M B E R T A M B B Y S O C O F F E E E A A N M E C C O H O N I O N R P B B I E H A G U K B U R G E R A L L F I R C H I C K E N E R Y S K E P R E V E S A N D W I C H T N S O P I Z Z A E T U M E T R A F T . © 2019 . 2 2. Which foods on page 1 are healthy and which are unhealthy? Healthy Unhealthy ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. cake, 3. Create your menu! Imagine you own a café. In pairs, name your café and create a menu using foods you like. Use the food items in the boxes on pages 3 and 4 if you need help. .............................. Café Breakfast 1) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 2) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 3) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ Lunch 1) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 2) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 3) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ Egg sandwich egg, bread, lettuce, cheese, tomato £ 3.00 . © 2019 . 3 Dinner 1) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 2) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 3) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ Desserts 1) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 2) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ 3) ............................................................. Price ....................... Ingredients ........................................................................................ Drinks 1) ............................................................. Price ....................... 2) ............................................................. Price ....................... 3) ............................................................. Price ....................... 4) ............................................................. Price ....................... 5) ............................................................. Price ....................... Meals: soup, stew, curry, pasta, burger, salad, fish and chips, sandwich, pie, pizza, rice. Meat: beef, pork, chicken, lamb, ham, sausages, bacon. Vegetables: potato, carrot, onion, corn, garlic, tomato, mushrooms, lettuce, pepper, peas, cucumber. Fish: cod, tuna, salmon, seafood. . © 2019 . 4 4. What do you usually have for breakfast, lunch, and dinner? What do you sometimes have? What do you never have? ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... For breakfast, I usually have For breakfast, I sometimes have For breakfast, I never have Other ingredients: cheese, bread, butter, eggs, sugar, salt, pepper, vinegar, oil. Desserts: cake, biscuits, ice cream, brownie, muffin, chocolate, pie, pancakes. Fruit: apple, pear, peach, strawberries, grapes, mango, coconut, orange, banana, pineapple, cherries, plum. Drinks: tea, coffee, fizzy drinks, water, beer, wine, milk, juice, smoothie. ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... For lunch, For dinner, 5. Listen and answer the questions using full sentences. 1) What does the person usually have for breakfast? .................................................................................................... 2) Does the person usually eat eggs for breakfast? .................................................................................................... 3) What does the person usually drink in the morning? .................................................................................................... 4) What does the person usually eat for lunch? .................................................................................................... Hi, can I help you? ....................................... How much are the oranges? ....................................... How many would you like? ....................................... Is the lettuce fresh? ....................................... Can I have five potatoes and three apples, please? ....................................... Would you like anything else? ....................................... Would you like a bag? ....................................... Can I have a bag, please? ....................................... Would you like to pay with cash or card? ....................................... . © 2019 . 5 8) What does the person have for lunch if he/she doesn’t cook? .................................................................................................... 9) Does the person usually drink coffee for dinner? .................................................................................................... 5) What does the person never eat for lunch? .................................................................................................... 6) What does the person usually drink after lunch? .................................................................................................... 7) What does the person usually have for dinner? .................................................................................................... 6. Look at the questions below. Which questions would the shop assistant ask? Which questions would the customer ask? £0.80 £1.05 £0.50 £1.35 £1.30 £0.20 shop assistant customer . © 2019 . 6 7. In pairs, write a conversation between a shop assistant and a customer. Use the questions from activity 6 for help. Then, read the conversation to the class. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... Do you accept credit cards? ....................................... Would you like a receipt? ....................................... . © 2020 . 1 A2 Subject pronouns Object pronouns Possessive adjectives Reflexive pronouns I me my myself you you your yourself he him his himself she her her herself it it its itself we us our ourselves you you your yourselves they them their themselves Reflexive pronouns are used when the subject and object of a sentence are the same. For example, Tony loves Tony. → He loves himself. reflexive pronoun For example, I am Aisha. You are my friend. subject pronoun possessive adjective Aisha likes me. I introduced myself. object pronoun reflexive pronoun 1. Write the correct reflexive pronoun. It is difficult to make a stew. Can you do it .................... ? I am confident. I believe in .................... myself . I don’t need help. I can do it .................... . . © 2020 . 2 Clara cut her finger. She cut .................... . Aisha and Marsha made a cake. They made it .................... . Aisha, Marsha, the cake is great. Did you make it ................... ? Gary talks a lot. He even talks to .................... . The dog sleeps alone. It sleeps by .................... . We went to London by .................... . 2. Write the correct subject pronoun for the reflexive pronoun. ............. are looking at ourselves in the mirror. ............. always do my homework myself. ............. talk about themselves a lot. ............. usually cleans the house himself. ............. made herself a cup of coffee. ............. can feed itself. ............. can help yourself to some biscuits. ............. always go shopping by ourselves. ............. live by myself. Did ............. buy yourselves ice cream at the beach? We 3. Select the correct pronoun. You can use the table on page 1 for help. Vera called Anna. ................. called ................. . She she her herself she her herself . © 2020 . 3 Do you like ............. trainers? They are ............... favourites. me my myself I my me ............. enjoyed ............. at the cinema. she her herself she her herself I can’t help ................ today. Can ................. do it .................. ? you your yourself you your yourself you your yourself I need to fix my bike. ............... will not fix ............... . it him itself it him itself ................ bought ................ car in Margate. Can you see my phone? I can’t find ................ . we our ourselves we our ourselves it me itself ................ like to be by ................ sometimes. I me myself I me myself I saw ................ at college yesterday. he him himself . © 2020 . 4 No, I don’t know ................ . Who are ..................... ? they them themselves they them themselves He did not make the soup ................ . I helped ..................... . he him himself he him himself 4. Listen and write the correct pronoun. Hi, ............ name is Aisha. ............. friend Tony and ............. cooked .................... a delicious dinner last night. ............. friends, Marcel and Clara, invited ...................... to ............. dinner. ................ are fun, so ............. did not mind. Tony and ........... don’t usually cook for other people. ............ cook for ..................... and .......... cooks for ...................... . ............ favourite dishes are different from Tony’s. ........... like salads and sandwiches but .............. likes soups and stews. Marcel and Clara rarely cook for ................... . ................ like to order food from restaurants because ................ are not good at cooking. The last time Marcel cooked, ............. cut ................... and had to go to the hospital. After dinner, ................ bought ................... a cake. ............. rarely eat cake, but ............ wanted to treat ................... . Clara loves cake, so ............. helped ................... to two slices. Marcel and Tony were hungry, so .............. had the rest. ........... really enjoyed ............. evening! In the future, ............ will cook for ............. friends more often. . © 2020 . 5 5. Answer the questions about Aisha’s evening using full sentences. Did Aisha and Tony invite Marcel and Clara? ................................................................................................... No, they invited themselves. Does Tony usually cook for Aisha? ................................................................................................... Did Clara have any cake? ................................................................................................... Did Aisha and Tony order the food from a restaurant? ................................................................................................... Do Marcel and Clara cook for themselves? ................................................................................................... What are Tony’s favourite dishes? ................................................................................................... What happened the last time Marcel cooked? ................................................................................................... Who does Aisha usually cook for? ................................................................................................... Did Aisha, Tony, Clara, and Marcel bake the cake themselves? ................................................................................................... . © 2020 . 1 Reflexive pronouns (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on pronouns, please see our A1 resources "Personal Pronouns" and “Possessives” at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/ Task 4. Listening script. Hi, my name is Aisha. My friend Tony and I cooked ourselves a delicious dinner last night. Our friends, Marcel and Clara, invited themselves to our dinner. They are fun, so we did not mind. Tony and I don’t usually cook for other people. I cook for myself and he cooks for himself. My favourite dishes are different from Tony’s. I like salads and sandwiches but he likes soups and stews. Marcel and Clara rarely cook for themselves. They like to order food from restaurants because they are not good at cooking. The last time Marcel cooked, he cut himself and had to go to the hospital. After dinner, we bought ourselves a cake. I rarely eat cake, but I wanted to treat myself. Clara loves cake, so she helped herself to two slices. Marcel and Tony were hungry, so they had the rest. I really enjoyed our evening! In the future, I will cook for my friends more often. I, me myself you, you (singular) yourself she, her herself he, him himself it, it itself we, us ourselves you, you (plural) yourselves they, them themselvesI talk a lot. Sometimes I talk to ____ . myself I made a delicious soup. Clara, you can help ____ to some soup! yourself She is very confident. She believes in ____ . herself He cut his finger while cooking. He cut ____ . himself Donut is a very intelligent dog. It can feed ____ . itself This dessert is so good! Did you make it ____? yourselves We are very independent. We are live by ____ . ourselves Aisha and Clara baked a cake. They baked it ____ . themselves . © 2020 . 1 A2 Subject pronouns Possessive adjectives Possessive pronouns I my mine you your yours he his his she her hers it its ---- we our ours you your yours they their theirs Possessive pronouns are used instead of a noun phrase to show possession. For example, Donut is my dog. → Donut is mine. For example, It is a phone. It is my phone. It is mine. possessive pronoun subject pronoun possessive adjective possessive pronoun 1. Write the correct possessive pronoun. It is her car. The car is .......... . This is Marsha and Hamid’s cat. The cat is .................... . My house is more beautiful than your house. My house is more beautiful than .................. . It is my sandwich. The sandwich is ............ . hers . © 2020 . 2 Donut is Tony’s dog. Donut is ............ . This ice cream is for you. The ice cream is ............ . Clara has a new book. The book is ............ . ............ hair is short and brown. The basketball is ............ . ............ love ............ phones. mine my I she hers her we our ours ............ have good jobs. The pizza is ............ . their theirs they their theirs they we our ours The bikes are mine and Aisha’s. The bikes are ............ . 2. Select the correct pronoun. My .......... T-shirt is green and .......... is blue. my mine I him v he his . © 2020 . 3 ............. have one brother. ............. name is Samuel. .......... like .......... jeans. They are cool! I my mine mine I my No, it is not ............. . my I mine my mine I him he his Hello! What is .......... name? yours your you Excuse me, is this bag ............. ? yours your you 3. Complete the answers using the correct possessive pronoun. Whose computer is this? It is ............. (she). Which bus is ours? Bus number 3 is ............. (we). Are these apples mine? No, the apples are not ............. (you). They are ............. (we). Excuse me, is this watch yours? Yes, the watch is ............. (I). Thank you! My lesson is at 3 PM. When is yours? ............. (I) is at 3 PM, too! . © 2020 . 4 4. Write the sentences in the correct order. is / The blue bike / mine / . ................................................................................................... his / basketball / It / is / . ................................................................................................... notebook / This / hers / is / . ................................................................................................... are / The dogs / theirs / . ................................................................................................... your / This / cake / is not / ! ................................................................................................... The blue bike is mine. Is this their dog? Yes, the dog is ............. (they). Whose house is it? The house is ............. (she). Is the green notebook Tony’s? No, the green notebook is ............. (I). Whose is the long black coat? The long black coat is ............. (he). our / are not / These / drinks / . ................................................................................................... uses / my computer every day / He / . ................................................................................................... your / hat / Excuse me, / is this / ? ................................................................................................... and / The red trainers are / hers / mine / the yellow trainers are / . ................................................................................................... is not / The white jacket / mine / . ................................................................................................... . © 2020 . 5 5. Listen to Marcel’s story and complete the sentences with the correct subject pronoun, possessive adjective, or possessive pronoun. Last weekend, ............. went to visit ............. friends in Dover. ............. live in a beautiful house. ............. house is more beautiful than ............. . ............. windows are very big and the garden is sunny. ............. friends’ names are Marsha and Hamid. ............ are from Egypt. ............. is a builder and ............. is a cook. Hamid loves ............. job but Marsha does not like ............. . ............. dream job is police officer. On Saturday, ............. met ............. friends, Tony and Clara. ............. live in Canterbury. ............. dog is small and light brown. ............. name is Donut and ............. favourite food is chips. ............. all went walking on the White Cliffs of Dover. In the evening, Hamid cooked ............. favourite dish: beef with apples and rice. ............. was terrible. Hamid ate ............. food but Marsha and ............. did not finish ............. . ............. is not a good cook! On Sunday, ............. went to the beach and had ice cream. Marsha had strawberry, Hamid had coconut, and ............. was chocolate flavour. ............. was delicious. After the beach, ............. took the train home. ............. all had a great weekend! 6. Answer the questions about Marcel’s weekend changing the words in bold for a subject pronoun, possessive adjective, or possessive pronoun. Use full sentences. Is Marsha and Hamid’s house more beautiful than Marcel’s? ................................................................................................... Is Donut Marcel’s dog? ................................................................................................... Yes, their house is more beautiful than his. Marcel Hamid Marsha . © 2020 . 6 Do Hamid and Marsha like their jobs? ................................................................................................... Is police officer Hamid’s dream job? ................................................................................................... Was the strawberry ice cream Marcel’s? ................................................................................................... Did Marsha and Marcel finish their food? ................................................................................................... Hamid and Marsha’s house is in Dover. Is Tony’s? ................................................................................................... Was the coconut ice cream Hamid’s? ................................................................................................... Are Tony and Clara Marcel’s friends? ................................................................................................... Whose favourite dish did Hamid cook? ................................................................................................... . © 2020 . 1 Possessive pronouns (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on pronouns, please see our A1 resources "Personal Pronouns" and “Possessives” at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/ Task 5. Listening script. Last weekend, I went to visit my friends in Dover. They live in a beautiful house. Their house is more beautiful than mine. Its windows are very big and the garden is sunny. My friends’ names are Marsha and Hamid. They are from Egypt. He is a builder and she is a cook. Hamid loves his job but Marsha does not like hers. Her dream job is police officer. On Saturday, we met our friends, Tony and Clara. They live in Canterbury. Their dog is small and light brown. Its name is Donut and its favourite food is chips. We all went walking on the White Cliffs of Dover. In the evening, Hamid cooked his favourite dish: beef with apples and rice. It was terrible. Hamid ate his food but Marsha and I did not finish ours. He is not a good cook! On Sunday, we went to the beach and had ice cream. Marsha had strawberry, Hamid had coconut, and mine was chocolate flavour. It was delicious. After the beach, I took the train home. We all had a great weekend! I, my mine you, your (singular) yours she, her hers he, his his we, our ours you, your (plural) yours they, their theirs These are her jeans. The jeans are ____ . hers I bought a new phone. This phone is ____ . mine Is this your pear? Is the pear ____? yours We ordered a pizza. This pizza is ____ . ours Donut is his dog. Donut is ____ . his These are Tony and Gary's phones. The phones are ____ . theirs Aisha and Marcel, are these bicycles ____? Yours This is Julia's book. This is hers. The laptop is Gloria's. The laptop is hers. These cats are Manuel's. These cats are his. The food on the stove is Mike's and yours. The food on the stove is yours. This car is mine and Jessica's. This car is ours. Your and my desk is the third on the left. Ours is the third on the left. Your and Mirela's dog looks a little fat. Yours looks a little fat. Are the bikes in front of the house Vera's and yours? Are the bikes in front of the house yours? This is my house, and that house is Dafina and Muhamet's. This is my house, and that house is theirs. I like Vera and Mirela's garden. I like theirs. This woman's bag is blue. Hers is blue. The last piece of pizza is my girlfriend's. The last piece of pizza is hers. The boy's jacket is too big. His is too big. Excuse me, is this coat your boyfriend's? Excuse me, is this coat his? My friends' neighbours are nicer than mine. Theirs are nicer than mine. . © 2019 . 1 A2 Illness Symptoms 1. cold ...... purple skin 2. flu ...... fever and chills 3. rash ...... runny nose and cough 4. nausea ...... pain in the head 5. cut ...... feel like vomiting 6. bruise ...... red, itchy skin 7. sore throat ...... can not swallow 8. headache ...... bleeding 1. Match the illnesses with the symptoms and then with the picture. 1 1 . © 2019 . 2 2. Select the correct option to complete the sentences. If you ......................, you should ........................................... . • are hungry • feel ill • wake up • see a doctor • go to the pharmacy • go to work • see a doctor • go to the pharmacy • go to work feel ill MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT SUN 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 08:00 10:00 12:00 Go to the doctor’s! 14:00 To .................................., you need to ............................................ . For this, you need to ......................................................... . The doctor will examine you and suggest a .............................. . Sometimes, the doctor will .................................................. like tablets, syrup, or a cream. • go to the hospital • use a calendar • make an appointment • call a friend • call the doctor’s surgery • call the police • holiday • symptom • treatment Stay at home and rest for two days. Take these three times a day. • prescribe medicine • take tablets • make an appointment TABLETS SYRUP CREAM . © 2019 . 3 • get better • feel ill • take medicine • doctor’s surgery • pharmacy • the nurse 3. Complete the conversation with the phrases in the box. Hi Marcel! Do you want to play basketball? What’s wrong? Hi Aisha. I can’t, I ........................ . see a doctor get better call the doctor’s surgery make an appointment feel ill have a headache and a fever PRESCRIPTIONS You can collect your medicine from the .................................. . If the treatment works, you will ..................................... . OK, I will ........................................................ and .............................................................. . I hope you .............................. soon. I .............................................. . You should ........................................ . How do you feel today? ...................... I have a fever. ...................... Put the cream on your knee twice a day. ...................... You should rest and drink lots of water. ...................... The headache started a week ago. ...................... When did the pain start? ...................... Do you have any other symptoms? ...................... Here is a prescription for a syrup. ...................... Take one pill every day for a week. ...................... I have a pain in my ear. ...................... I have an appointment with Doctor Smith. ...................... The nurse will help you. ...................... I don’t feel well. ...................... I have a rash on my hand. ...................... I will prescribe you some tablets. ...................... My back hurts. ...................... You should feel better soon. ...................... I have a bad cough. ...................... I will examine your foot now. ...................... Does anything else hurt? ...................... I have nausea. ...................... Let me take a look at that. ...................... . © 2019 . 4 4. Who says these sentences, the patient or the doctor? Doctor Patient Doctor: Good afternoon, Marcel. ................................ today? Marcel: I ........................ . I have ...................................................... . Doctor: And when did it start? Marcel: It started last night. Doctor: Do you have any other symptoms? Marcel: I also .................................. . Doctor: OK. I will examine you now. It looks like you .................................... . I will prescribe you .......................................... . Marcel: How often do I take them? Doctor: Take them three times a day for five days and drink lots of water. You should ........................................ . Marcel: Thank you. . © 2019 . 5 5. Listen and complete the conversation between Marcel and the doctor. 6. In pairs, write a new conversation between a doctor and a patient. You can use sentences from the previous activities. Then, read the conversation to the class. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... . © 2019 . 1 Going to the doctor’s (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on the parts of the body, please see our A1 resource "The Body" at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/ Task 5. Doctor: Good afternoon, Marcel. How are you today? Marcel: I feel ill. I have a headache and a cough. Doctor: And when did it start? Marcel: It started last night. Doctor: Do you have any other symptoms? Marcel: I also have a fever. Doctor: OK. I will examine you now. It looks like you have the flu. I will prescribe you syrup and tablets. Marcel: How often do I take them? Doctor: Take them three times a day for five days and drink lots of water. You should feel better soon. Marcel: Thank you. fever chills runny nose cough sore throat cold headache nausea bruise rash cut bleeding doctor's appointment pharmacy cream tablets syrup medicine prescription How do you f____ today? feel I feel i____. ill I have a f____. fever Do you have any other s____? symptoms I have a bad h____. headache Here is a prescription for some t____. tablets Take this syrup for your c____. cough I have a p____ in my left foot. pain My back h____. hurts I have an a____ with Doctor Basha. appointment I have a c____. cold You have the f____. flu You can get your medicine from the p____. pharmacy You should feel b____ soon. Better I would like to s____ a doctor, please. see I would like to m____ an appointment with a doctor. make I a____ sick. am I c____ not swallow. can I h____ a headache. have I f____ like vomiting. feel Please, t____ three tablets a day. take You should s____ in bed this week. stay You will g____ better in a few days. get You can c____ your medicines from the pharmacy. collect You should p____ this cream on your hand every evening. put I will e____ your foot now. examine I will p____ you some tablets and a syrup. prescribe Please, d____ lots of water. Drink . © 2019 . 1 A2 1. Complete the crossword. 13 10 3 1 2 5 7 17 12 4 16 11 8 9 6 14 15 Across 5 8 6 7 10 11 12 13 14 16 Down 2 4 1 3 5 9 8 15 17 T R A I N E R S . © 2019 . 2 2. Write the correct descriptions under the images. long - short tight - loose large/big - small patterned - plain bright - dark wide - narrow ........................... ........................... ........................... ........................... ........................... ........................... 3. Use the words from activities 1 and 2 to describe what the people are wearing. ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... Marcel is wearing ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... Rashida is wearing . © 2019 . 3 cheap expensive I will take it change 4. Listen and number the sentences in the correct order. You will need to know the following vocabulary: ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... ....................................................................... Gary is wearing 1 ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ And that’s £1 change. Thank you, bye! ............ That’s great. I will take them. I wear medium. How much are they? And how much are the grey trousers? Yes, we do. What size do you wear? The blue jeans are a bit cheaper. They are £39. That is very expensive. How much are the blue jeans? Here’s £20. Thank you! Hello, how can I help? ............ The trousers are £19. ............ Hi, do you sell black jeans? ............ ............ ............ OK, that’s £19, please. They are £45. . © 2019 . 4 Assistant Customer Hello, how can I help? ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. Now, write the conversation between the shop assistant and the customer in the correct order. True or false? The blue jeans cost £45. TRUE / FALSE The customer wears medium size. TRUE / FALSE £45 is too expensive. TRUE / FALSE The customer bought the grey trousers. TRUE / FALSE The grey trousers cost £19. TRUE / FALSE The shop does not sell black jeans. TRUE / FALSE . © 2019 . 5 Hi, can I help you? That’s £29, please. Would you like to pay by cash or card? Yes, please. Where are the changing rooms? This blouse is too small for me. Do you have it in large? Sorry, we only have the large blouses in red and purple. They are next to the jackets. Sure, here it is. 5. Listen and number the sentences in the correct order. You will need to know the following vocabulary: Hi. Do you have this blouse in green? Yes, we do. Would you like to try it on? Card, please. I will take the purple one, please. OK, that’s all done. Thank you! Thanks, I will take it. Thank you, bye! ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ Now, write the conversation between the shop assistant and the customer in the correct order. Assistant Customer ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. try on changing room cash credit card . © 2019 . 6 ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. ................................................. Answer the questions using full sentences. Does the shop have the green blouse in large? .................................................................................................... Which colours does the shop have? .................................................................................................... What size blouse does the customer buy? .................................................................................................... How much is the blouse? .................................................................................................... Does the customer pay by cash or credit card? .................................................................................................... . © 2019 . 7 6. In pairs, write a new conversation between a shop assistant and a customer. You can use sentences from the previous activities. Then, read the conversation to the class. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... . © 2019 . 1 Clothes (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on clothes, please see our A1 resource "Clothes" at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/ Task 4. Listening script. Assistant: Hello, how can I help? Customer: Hi, do you sell black jeans? Assistant: Yes, we do. What size do you wear? Customer: I wear medium. How much are they? Assistant: They are £45. Customer: That is very expensive. How much are the blue jeans? Assistant: The blue jeans are a bit cheaper. They are £39. Customer: And how much are the grey trousers? Assistant: The trousers are £19. Customer: That’s great. I will take them. Assistant: OK, that’s £19, please. Customer: Here’s £20. Thank you! Assistant: And that’s £1 change. Thank you, bye! Task 1. Across: 5) Trainers, 6) Jumper, 7) Jeans, 8) Shirt, 10) Shorts, 11) Coat, 12) Tie, 13) Socks, 14) Dress, 16) Hat Down: 1) Jacket, 2) Blouse, 3) Watch, 4) Backpack, 5) Trousers, 8) Shoes, 9) T-shirt, 15) Scarf, 17) Skirt. . © 2019 . 2 Task 5. Listening script. Assistant: Hi, can I help you? Customer: Hi. Do you have this blouse in green? Assistant: Yes, we do. Would you like to try it on? Customer: Yes, please. Where are the changing rooms? Assistant: They are next to the jackets. Customer: This blouse is too small for me. Do you have it in large? Assistant: Sorry, we only have the large blouses in red and purple. Customer: I will take the purple one, please. Assistant: Sure, here it is. Customer: Thanks, I will take it. Assistant: That’s £29, please. Would you like to pay by cash or card? Customer: Card, please. Assistant: OK, that’s all done. Thank you! Customer: Thank you, bye! In some shops you can only pay by ____ . cash In many shops you can pay by ____ . credit card I paid with a £20 note and the cashier gave me £3 ____ . change This T-shirt is very ____ . expensive This T-shirt is ____ . cheap Clara is ____ a scarf. trying on Clara is in the ____ . changing room This skirt is ____ size. small These shorts are ____ size. medium This jacket is ____ size. large This person is a ____. shop assistant This person is a ____. Customer large / ____ small long / ____ short ____ / dark bright wide / ____ narrow ____ / loose tight patterned / ____ plain bright / ____ dark tight / ____ loose ____ / small large ____ / plain patterned ____ / short long ____ / narrow wide Hello, how ____ I help? can Do you ____ black jumpers? sell How much ____ these shorts? are How much ____ this hoodie? is What ____ do you usually wear? size I usually ____ medium. wear This T-shirt is too ____ . Do you have something cheaper? expensive This jacket is too ____. Do you have it in large? small Do you sell these jeans in a different ____? colour Would you like to ____ it on? try Where are the ____ rooms, please? changing I would like to ____ these trousers. buy That's £27, ____. please Would you like to ____ by cash or by card? pay I will pay by ____. cash I will pay by ____. card Here ____ are. you There you ____. go And that's £3 ____ . Thank you! Change . © 2020 . 1 A2 1. Complete the sentences using the correct preposition. in front of on the right between down in on behind up above next to on the left under Tony lives ......... house number 27. in Aisha is running ........... the hill. My cat is always ................ the sofa. Aisha is ................ Clara. She parks her car ....................... her house. Aisha’s bike is ................ Marcel’s bike. The pizza is ................ the oven. Aisha is ........................ and Clara is ........................ . The ball is rolling ........... the hill. Donut likes to sit .......... the chair. . © 2020 . 2 Donut likes to sit ................ Julia and Alid. The window is ................ the bed. 2. Can you name the rooms in a house? 1. ......................... 2. ......................... 3. ......................... 4. ......................... 1. 2. 3. 4. Now, find the objects in the picture. fridge laptop cupboard plates TV stove kettle bed lamp carpet pan upstairs window sofa shelf picture shower sink wardrobe mirror downstairs pot toilet wall floor living room bedroom kitchen bathroom . © 2020 . 3 There is / there are To talk about objects in a place, we use there is / there are + object + preposition + place. For example, There is a ball behind the box. there is object preposition place There are two pictures in the box. there are object preposition place 3. Write sentences using there is / there are. ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... There are three beds. There is / dog / the bed / next to / . ................................................................................................... on / a laptop / the table / There is / . ................................................................................................... a phone / There is / under / the sofa / . ................................................................................................... There is a dog next to the bed. 4. Write the sentences in the correct order. . © 2020 . 4 There are / in front of / two chairs / the TV / . ................................................................................................... a fridge / behind / the table / There is / . ................................................................................................... a picture / There is / the bed / above / . ................................................................................................... three cats / in / the kitchen / There are / . ................................................................................................... There is / a bike / the house / in front of / . ................................................................................................... a mirror / between / the wardrobe and the bed / There is / . ................................................................................................... on / There is / the wall / a clock / . ................................................................................................... 5. Listen and complete the sentences. There are four rooms .......... my house. There are two rooms ...................... and two rooms .................. . The ....................... and ...................... are .................... . The .................. is small. It is ....................... . The ........................ is big. It is ......................... . In the ........................, there are a red table and two green chairs ........................ . There is a white shelf .................... the table. The sofa is ......................... . There is a beautiful picture .................... it. In the ...................., there are a blue fridge, a white stove, and a grey sink. There are dirty plates ............. the sink and a big pan ................ the stove. There is an orange kettle ...................... the sink. Is the bathroom downstairs? ................................................................................................... Are there four beds in the bedroom? ................................................................................................... In the kitchen, where are the plates? ................................................................................................... Are there four chairs in the living room? ................................................................................................... Is there a TV in the bedroom? ................................................................................................... Are there any pictures in the kitchen? ................................................................................................... In the bathroom, where is the sink? ................................................................................................... Is there a mirror in the living room? ................................................................................................... . © 2020 . 5 6. Answer the questions about the house in activity 5. No, the bathroom is upstairs. .................... , the .................... is ....................... and the .................... is .................... . The .................... is bigger than the .................... . The .................... is the smallest room ............. the house. ............. the ...................., the bath is ...................... . The sink is .................... the bath. The toilet is ...................... . There is a long mirror .................... the sink. There are two beds ............. the .................... . One is ....................... and the other is ....................... . The bed ....................... is smaller than the bed ....................... . There are purple and yellow pictures .................... the beds and a big brown wardrobe .................... them. . © 2020 . 6 7. Describe the rooms of the house on page 2 and the objects in each room. Use there is / there are and prepositions. If you can, use comparatives/superlatives and colours as well. You can use the text in activity 5 for help. There are four rooms in the house. The bedroom is the biggest room. ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... 8. Game! . © 2020 . 1 Prepositions of place and the house (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on prepositions of place, please see our A1 resource "Prepositions of Place" at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/ Task 8. Spot the differences. Each student is given one of the pages below showing the image of a house. In pairs, they describe the pictures and ask questions to find 10 differences between the pictures. Students should be encouraged to use there is/there are, prepositions of place, comparatives/superlatives, colours, etc. Task 5. Listening Script. There are four rooms in my house. There are two rooms downstairs and two rooms upstairs. The living room and kitchen are downstairs. The kitchen is small. It is on the left. The living room is big. It is on the right. In the living room, there are a red table and two green chairs on the left. There is a white shelf behind the table. The sofa is on the right. There is a beautiful picture above it. In the kitchen, there are a blue fridge, a white stove, and a grey sink. There are dirty plates in the sink and a big pan on the stove. There is an orange kettle next to the sink. Upstairs, the bathroom is on the left and the bedroom is on the right. The bedroom is bigger than the bathroom. The bathroom is the smallest room in the house. In the bathroom, the bath is on the left. The sink is next to the bath. The toilet is on the right. There is a long mirror above the sink. There are two beds in the bedroom. One is on the left and the other is on the right. The bed on the left is smaller than the bed on the right. There are purple and yellow pictures above the beds and a big brown wardrobe between them. . © 2020 . 2 Spot the differences. Picture 1. . © 2020 . 3 Spot the differences. Picture 2. living room sofa chair table TV shelf carpet picture window bedroom bed wardrobe lamp laptop kitchen fridge stove cupboard pot pan plates kettle bathroom shower sink toilet mirror upstairs downstairs Donut likes to sit ____ the chair. on Aisha is running ____ the hill. up The ball is rolling ____ the hill. down My cat is always ____ the sofa. under Aisha is ____ Clara. next to The pizza is ____ the oven. in She parks her car ____ the house. in front of The blue bike is ____ the red bike. behind Donut is sitting ____ Julia and Alid. between The window is ____ the bed. A bove The woman is ____ . on the left The man is ____ . on the rightIs there anyone in the house? (yes) Yes, there is. Are there two parking spaces in front of the house? (yes) Yes, there are. Is there a window behind the sofa? (no) No, there isn't. Are there any books on the shelf? (no) No, there aren't. Is there a carpet under the table? (yes) Yes, there is. Is there a bathroom downstairs? (yes) Yes, there is. Are there pictures above the bed? (no) No, there aren't. Are there any plates in the cupboard? (yes) Yes, there are. Is there a sofa between the table and the shelves? (no) No, there isn't. Are there two bedrooms in this house? (no) No, there aren't. Is there anything in the oven? (no) No, there isn't. Is there a fridge next to the stove? (yes) Yes, there is. Is there a mirror in the bathroom? (no) No, there isn't.  . © 2020 . 1 A2 1. Complete the sentences using at / on / in or no preposition. M T W T F S S 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 M T W T F S S APRIL M T W T F S S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 My birthday is ............ April. It is ............ the 19th . She usually starts work ........... 5:30 PM. She likes working ............ the evening. I did all my homework ............ yesterday. The movie starts ........... 9:25 PM. Tony wears a big jacket ........ winter. I started school ......... 2012. They always sleep late ......... weekends. ......... Sunday, I’m going to the beach. in 12 6 3 1 2 8 5 4 7 10 11 9 12 6 3 1 2 8 5 4 7 10 11 9 December January February M T W T F S S 1 2 3 4 5 6 We’re meeting ........... tomorrow morning. PM AM We never drink coffee ......... night. ........ next year, I’ll be 18 years old. She does not study ......... summer. last year this year next year June July August . © 2020 . 2 English lesson Maths lesson Going home before after from start finish to English lesson 5:00 pm 4:00 pm 6:00 pm 7:00 pm 4:00 pm 5:00 pm 6:00 pm From / to, before / after From shows when an event starts. To shows when an event finishes. For example, My English lesson is from 5 PM to 6 PM. If an event happens earlier than another event, we use before. If it happens later, we use after. For example, My Maths lesson is from 4 PM to 5 PM. It is before my English lesson. I go home at 6 PM. I go home after my English lesson. 2. Complete the sentences using in / on / at / from / to / before / after. My English lesson is .......... 10 AM and my Maths lesson is ........... 11:40 PM. My English lesson is ............... my Maths lesson. Aisha starts work ............ 10 AM. She finishes work ............ 6 PM. She works ............... 10 AM ............... 6 PM. I’m going to London ........... Monday. I’m coming back ........... Friday. I’m staying in London .............. Monday .............. Friday. My birthday is ........ June. My sister’s birthday is .......... September. My sister’s birthday is ................ mine. I have a doctor’s appointment ........... the 18th of April. at Clara likes to watch TV ............... she goes to college. . © 2020 . 3 Tony always goes swimming ........... 8 AM. His first lesson is ........... 9 AM. He goes swimming ................... his first lesson. I’m going shopping when I finish work. I’m going shopping ................... work. Clara and Marcel always study ............... the evening. They study ............... 5:30 PM ............... 7:30 PM. I brush my teeth ............... I get up. Hi, I’m Clara. I am a student and I work at a shop. This is my schedule. I go to college ............... Monday ............... Friday. My lessons usually start ............ 8:45 AM and finish ............. 5 PM. ........... the mornings, I usually have English and Maths lessons. ........... the afternoons, I have History, Science, or Art. There is a 1 hour break ........... 12 PM. ........... Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays I usually go to the gym. I like to go .............. college because I’m usually busy ........... the evenings. I get up ........... 6 AM and I’m at the gym .............. 6:30 AM ............... 7:30 AM. ................. the gym, I go home to shower and eat breakfast. .......... the evenings, I usually study or work. My friends and I go to the library .......... Mondays and Wednesdays ............... college. We usually study ............ 6 PM .............. 9 PM. .......... Tuesdays and Thursdays, I work at a shop ............... 5:30 PM ................. 9:30 PM. I am always very tired .......... the evenings, so I go to bed ................. 10:30 PM. .......... the weekends, I always relax a lot. I always get up ............... 10 AM. .......... the evenings, I like to go shopping with my friends or watch films. Sometimes, I cook a big dinner .......... Sunday afternoons but usually I just read a book. It is important to relax ............... another busy week! 3. Listen and write the correct preposition. M T W T F S S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 . © 2020 . 4 4. Answer the questions about Clara's week. 5. Describe Tony’s week using in / on / at / before / after / from / to. You can use the text in activity 3 for help. When does Clara go to college? ................................................................................................... Clara goes to college from Monday to Friday. At what time does Clara get up on the weekends? ................................................................................................... When does Clara go to the library? ................................................................................................... When does Clara usually have History lessons? ................................................................................................... At what time does Clara usually go to bed? ................................................................................................... When does Clara work at the shop? ................................................................................................... At what time does college start? At what time does it finish? ................................................................................................... When does Clara have breakfast on Mondays and Wednesdays? ................................................................................................... When does Clara go to the gym? How long is she at the gym? ................................................................................................... Monday 8 AM - 4 PM Work Evening Staying in Tuesday 8 AM - 4 PM Work 6 PM Dinner with friends . © 2020 . 5 Thursday 8 AM - 4 PM Work 5:30 PM English lesson Friday 7 AM - 8 AM Go to the gym 9 AM - 4 PM Work Weekend Morning Breakfast with friends Afternoon Play football or relax ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................... Tony works from Monday to Friday. On Monday ... 6. Game! Wednesday 8 AM - 4 PM Work Evening Go to the cinema . © 2020 . 1 Prepositions of time (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need to review the prepositions in / on / at, see our "Prepositions of time" A1 resource at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/ resources/ Task 3. Listening script. Hi, I’m Clara. I am a student and I work at a shop. This is my schedule. I go to college from Monday to Friday. My lessons usually start at 8:45 AM and finish at 5 PM. In the mornings, I usually have English and Maths lessons. In the afternoons, I have History and Science. There is a 1 hour break at 12 PM. On Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays I usually go to the gym. I like to go before college because I’m usually busy in the evenings. I get up at 6 AM and I’m at the gym from 6:30 AM to 7:30 AM. After the gym, I go home to shower and eat breakfast. In the evenings, I usually study or work. My friends and I go to the library on Mondays and Wednesdays after college. We usually study from 6 PM to 9 PM. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, I work at a shop from 5:30 PM to 9:30 PM. I am always very tired in the evenings, so I go to bed before 10:30 PM. On the weekends, I always relax a lot. I always get up after 10 AM. In the evenings, I like to go shopping with my friends or watch films. Sometimes, I cook a big dinner on Sunday afternoons but usually I just read a book. It is important to relax before another busy week! Task 6. In pairs or small groups, students make their way around the board. According to the square they are on, students provide the correct preposition (or no preposition) or create a sentence using the provided preposition. If there is no die available, the number cards on page 3 can be used. Each pair/ group is provided with numbers 1 to 6 face down to draw one randomly each turn. The first player to reach the finish wins. . © 2020 . 2 OH NO! GO BACK! MISS A TURN! START FINISH MOVE FORWARD MOVE FORWARD I eat dinner ...... the evening. Sarah goes to work ...... she wakes up. I go to the park ...... summer. We always have lunch ...... 12:25 PM. I’m going to Scotland ...... the 14th of June. ...... work, she meets her friends. I sleep ...... 1 AM ....... 9 AM. My bus leaves .... 14:53 PM. School starts ...... September. I’m not working .... tomorrow. We had fun ........ last weekend. Are you free ..... Friday? Today I got up ...... 10 AM! My sister is visiting ...... next Monday. Christmas is ....... December. We play football ...... 8 AM ...... 11 AM. Make a sentence using before. Make a sentence using after. Make a sentence using from … to … Make a sentence using in. . © 2020 . 3 2 6 4 5 1 3 2 6 4 5 1 3 2 6 4 5 1 3 2 6 4 5 1 3 2 6 4 5 1 3 2 6 4 5 1 3 My birthday / is / May. My birthday is in May. I / start my new job / the 12th of October. I start my new job on the 12th of October. We / usually have dinner / 6 pm. We usually have dinner at 6 pm. I / like running / the morning. I like running in the morning. I / started school / 2012. I started school in 2012. I / went shopping / yesterday. I went shopping yesterday. Tony / wears a big jacket / winter. Tony wears a big jacket in winter. I / am going to the beach / Sunday. I am going to the beach on Sunday. We / are meeting / tomorrow evening. We are meeting tomorrow evening. We / never drink coffee / night. We never drink coffee at night. They / always sleep late / weekends. They always sleep late on weekends. I / will be 18 years old / Tuesday. I will be 18 years old on Tuesday. She / does not go to college / summer. She does not go to college in summer. We / had a party / last week. We had a party last week. Aisha / has a basketball match / 11 am. Aisha has a basketball match at 11 am. I usually sleep ____ . from 11 pm to 6 am He has a shower ____ . after getting up I always cycle ____ . before having dinner Marcel cycles every day ____ . from 8 am to 9 am I put on my backpack ____ . before going to school Aisha is studying today ____ . from 1 pm to 3 pm I like to watch TV ____ . from 7 pm to 9 pm Anna washes the dishes ____ . after having dinner Do you eat dinner late ____ the evening? in I usually exercise ____ I wake up. after We want to go to Greece ____ summer. in My alarm will ring ____ 6am. at The bus leaves ____ quarter past eight. at I sleep from 10pm ____ 6am. to I work ____ 8am to 3pm. from The school year starts ____ the first of October. on Spring starts ____ March. in Can I visit you ____ Sunday? on I take a shower ____ I go to sleep. before It's usually hot ____ July. In HT . © 2020 . 1 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S L L A P T O P P U T K E A P R C G A H V E T C N C T C T J S O B E A L S Y G A A H D N U Q U I C H I M O U S E K C E C R C H E R Y Y F F O T K E U A R N M C O M M E M E R N A M A S B E P B T N S U P E G H M I U C G G O N O F F B U T T O N E R I J U L E B A E H E B X R K E Y B O A R D N R 1. Find the words. A2 CAPS LOCK CAPS LOCK SHIFT SHIFT SHIFT BACKSPACE SPACE CAPS LOCK ENTER HT . © 2020 . 2 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S For example, The keyboard - important keys. MAKES ALL CAPITAL LETTERS Makes onE cApital Letter SPACE BACKSPACE Makes a space between words . . Deletes a letter BACKSPACE ENTER Makes a new line . ENTER . → → → → → . SPACE . . . For example, . ab For example, A . For example, ( + ) For example, . . B C HT . © 2020 . 3 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 2. Select the correct option. SHIFT H → H ( + ) E F E L L O • hello • Hello • HELLO • good morning • • Good Morning G SPACE G → G O O D M O G O O D R N I N good morning • • good NIGHT • good Night → good night • AFTERNOON • Afternoon • afternoon R O O → T T N N I A ENTER CAPS LOCK • byebye • bye morning • Bye bye → • good bye • GOODBYE • goodbye → • haEllo • haello • hello → N E V E G S • evening • Evenings • evenings N I N BACKSPACE → BACKSPACE G B Y E ( SHIFT + B ) Y E B Y E O O D H A E L L O SPACE HT . © 2020 . 4 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 3. Select the correct key. → apple → Coffee SANDWICH fizzy drinks → → → green tea → fruit → CHIPS ... ... ... ... SHIFT SPACE SPACE ENTER CAPS LOCK CAPS LOCK BACKSPACE SHIFT SHIFT SHIFT ENTER ENTER ... SPACE SHIFT ENTER BACKSPACE ... BACKSPACE BACKSPACE ( + C ) O F F E E A P P L E S D W H S N I I I A C F Z Z Y D R N K S G R E E T E F R I T N A U H P S S ... C I SHIFT ENTER CAPS LOCK HT . © 2020 . 5 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S The mouse. move right-click double-click programs 2 clicks E-mail Internet E-mail + New e-mail The mouse moves the cursor on the screen. Double-click on programs to open them. Single-click in programs and the Internet. Right-click to open the menu. E-mail Internet Open Copy Paste Delete 2 clicks HT . © 2020 . 6 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 4. Select the correct option. 5. Select the correct option. • icon • move • click • click • mouse • programs • right-click • double-click • move • right-click • move • double-click • right-click • move • double-click • right-click • mouse • programs • double-click • right-click • move • move • single-click • double-click • click • move • right-click • move • double-click • click To open the menu, we .......... . We see .......... on the screen. To open a program, we .......... it. In the program, we .......... . To .......... the cursor, we .......... the mouse. E-mail Internet Open Copy Paste Delete E-mail Internet E-mail Internet 2 clicks E-mail + New e-mail HT . © 2020 . 1 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Using a computer (A2) Teacher’s notes If students need a review on computers, please see our A1 resource "Computers" at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/. Additional activities. For typing practice, there are fun games available on www.typing.com/student/games and other sites. Students can also be directed to https://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish, which has lots of resources and links to Facebook groups in several languages. AFTERNOON apple Bye bye Bye. evening fish&chips good morning goodbye Hello Hello? hello Sorry! Tuesday yes, no YES mouse single-click double-click right-click program We see ____ on the screen programs The ____ moves the cursor on the screen. mouse To open the menu, we ____ . right-click To open a program, we ____ it. double-click In a program, we ____ to open something. single-click HT . © 2021 . 1 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S A2 Hi, my name is Gavin. I am a cook at a restaurant. The company’s name is Happy Chicken, and it has twenty restaurants in the country. Happy Chicken is my employer. My manager’s name is Devan. I have two colleagues in the kitchen. Their names are Rashida and Anna. Rashida, Anna, and I are a team. Every morning, my manager talks to all the employees. He tells us what we have to do. If we have problems, he helps us. COMPANY / EMPLOYER MANAGER EMPLOYEES TEAM COLLEAGUES Devan Gavin Rashida Anna HAPPY CHICKEN HT . © 2021 . 2 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 1. Write the missing letters. C...MP...NY OR ...MPL......ER M...N...G...R EMPLO........S T......M COLL...AG...ES HAPPY CHICKEN Your employer can be a person or a company. Gavin works at Happy Chicken. Happy Chicken is his employer. Mary works at Good Tools. It is Ali’s company. Ali is Mary’s employer. Good Tools is Mary’s employer too. HT . © 2021 . 3 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 2. Read the text and write the correct words. THE NAME OF THE ..................... : GOOD TOOLS THE NAME OF THE ...................... AND ...................... : ALI THE NAMES OF MARY’S ...................... : SAMUEL AND WILLIAM MARY, SAMUEL, AND WILLIAM ARE A ...................... . MARY, SAMUEL, AND WILLIAM ARE ALI’S ...................... . My name is Mary. I am an electrician at a small company. The company’s name is Good Tools. It has three employees. My employer’s name is Ali. He is my manager too. I have two colleagues, Samuel and William. We are a small team. HT . © 2021 . 4 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Rashida, Anna and I work at the same company. Rashida and Anna are my... employers managers colleagues Tanya, Samuel and Tony are my colleagues. We are... a company a team an employer I work at Bradford’s, a supermarket. Bradford’s is... a colleague a company a team I have a job. I am... an employee a colleague an employer Clara tells me what to do. She helps me when I have problems. She is my... team colleague manager I work at a university. The university is my... colleague manager employer 3. Select the correct word. 4. Listen and write the words. I work at a small ................... I do not have many ................... It is okay for me because I like working in a small ................... I like my colleagues and they like me. I like my .................. too. Her name is Liah. Five years ago, Liah was an ................... If I work at this company for a long time, maybe I will be a .................. too. HT . © 2021 . 5 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S I work at a small .................. like Aisha. My .................. started her company three years ago. There are fifteen people in our ................... My ..................’s name is Julia. She tells me that I am a good ................... This is my schedule: 9 am 5 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K 9 am 1 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun WORK WORK WORK WORK WORK This is my schedule: I work full-time. I work thirty-five hours per week. My shifts start at 9am and finish at 5pm. My days off are Sunday and Monday. I work part-time. I work twenty hours per week. My shifts start at 9am and finish at 1pm. My days off are Saturday and Sunday. 5. Read about Gavin and Aisha’s schedules. HT . © 2021 . 6 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 6. Write the correct words. SHIFT DAY OFF SCHEDULE PART-TIME END OF THE SHIFT FULL-TIME START OF THE SHIFT 10 am 4 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K ........................... ......................... ......................... .................... ....................... .................... .................... This is usually thirty-five or more hours of work per week. This is usually between four and thirty-five hours of work per week. HT . © 2021 . 7 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 7. Read the texts. Select the correct schedule for each text. SCHEDULE 1 SCHEDULE 2 SCHEDULE 3 4 pm 10 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 10 am W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K 4 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 10 am W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K 10 am 8 am 4 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 6 pm W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K I work full-time. I have five shifts per week. On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, my shifts start at 8am and finish at 5pm. On Friday and Saturday, my shifts start at 10am and finish at 6pm. My days off are Thursday and Sunday. - SCHEDULE ........ I work full-time, from Sunday to Friday. I have a day off every Saturday. My shifts always start at 10am and finish at 4pm. - SCHEDULE ........ I work part-time. I have three evening shifts per week. On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, I start at 4pm and finish at 10pm. On Thursday, I work from 10am to 4pm. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday are my days off. - SCHEDULE ........ HT . © 2021 . 8 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 8. Listen to Clara and Marcel talk about their jobs. Write the words. 9. Answer the questions about Clara and Marcel. Hi, I’m Clara. I am an .................. at a big hospital. I work .................. . My .................. is not always the same. When my .................. and I have a lot of work, my schedule is very busy. I work from Monday to Saturday and I have a .................. on Sunday. Sometimes, my manager gives me only four ................... Then, I have three ................... I like my job and I am happy that every week is different. Hello, I’m Marcel. I am a .................. at a plumbing ................... The company is very big. I have many ................... I don’t know my .................. personally. I have a .................. of twenty plumbers. I usually have five .................. per week. Sometimes, I work more if my team needs some help. My shifts start at 7am and finish at 4pm. Does Clara work part-time? ................................................................................................... Does Clara always have one day off? ................................................................................................... Does Clara always have five shifts per week? ................................................................................................... Does Marcel work at a big company? ................................................................................................... Does Marcel have twelve employees in his team? ................................................................................................... Does Marcel start work at 7pm? ................................................................................................... Does Marcel finish work at 4pm? ................................................................................................... No, she does not. Clara works full-time. HT . © 2021 . 1 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Looking for a job (A2) Teacher’s notes This worksheet can be followed by “Looking for a job 2”, available at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/#level-a2. If students need a review on jobs and workplaces, please see our A1 resources “Jobs” and “Jobs 2” at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/ resources/#level-a1. Task 4. I work at a small company. I do not have many colleagues. It is okay for me because I like working in a small team. I like my colleagues and they like me. I like my manager too. Her name is Liah. Five years ago, Liah was an employee. If I work at this company for a long time, maybe I will be a manager too. I work at a small company like Aisha. My employer started her company three years ago. There are fifteen people in our team. My manager’s name is Julia. She tells me that I am a good employee. Task 8. Hi, I’m Clara. I am an employee at a big hospital. I work fulltime. My schedule is not always the same. When my colleagues and I have a lot of work, my schedule is very busy. I work from Monday to Saturday, and I have a day off on Sunday. Sometimes, my manager gives me only four shifts. Then, I have three days off. I like my job and I am happy that every week is different. Hello, I’m Marcel. I am a manager at a plumbing company. The company is very big. I have many colleagues. I don’t know my employer personally. I have a team of twenty plumbers. I usually have five shifts per week. Sometimes, I work more if my team needs some help. My shifts start at 7am and finish at 4pm. HT . © 2021 . 1 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S A2 A contract is a document between an employee and an employer. There is information about your working hours, salary, and holidays in the contract. Before your first day at a new job, you read and sign the contract. I have a permanent contract. I do not have to look for a new job. I can work for my employer for a long time. May Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 June Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 July Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 August Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 September Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 October Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 I have a fixed-term contract at a hotel. I will work in July, August, and September. Then, I will look for a new job. HT . © 2021 . 2 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 8 am Monday £12 £12 £12 £12 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 am I work full-time and my salary is £1250 per month. My hourly rate is £12. On Mondays, I work four hours. I make £48. May Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 June Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 £1250 £1250 August Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K In May, I will only work for three weeks. I am taking one week of annual leave. My employer will pay me for this week. This information is in my contract. HT . © 2021 . 3 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S January Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun W O R K W O R K I N B E D W O R K W O R K I work part-time. I can take 7 days of sick leave per year. This is not the same for every job. When I am sick, I can take sick leave and stay at home. I have to call my employer and go to the doctor’s. I can take 14 days of sick leave per year. My employer will pay me for these days. This information is in my contract. 1. Select the correct word. Before I start a new job, my employer gives me a... sick leave contract salary I make £9 per one hour of work. It is my... annual leave sick leave hourly rate When I am sick, I take a... sick leave annual leave fixed-term HT . © 2021 . 4 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S I get £1300 per month. It is my... hourly rate permanent salary I will work at an office for two months. My contract is... fixed-term salary permanent When I want to go on a holiday, I take a... sick leave annual leave contract My contract is not fixed-term, so it is... hourly rate fixed-term permanent 2. Connect the words. There is one word that does not connect with anything. HOURLY FIXED-TERM ANNUAL SALARY PERMANENT SICK LEAVE CONTRACT RATE LEAVE CONTRACT HT . © 2021 . 5 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 3. Read the dialogues and write the correct words. PERMANENT HOURLY RATE SICK LEAVE SALARY ANNUAL LEAVE FIXED-TERM CONTRACT Hello, Devan. In July, I want to visit my family in Albania. I would like to take ........................ We are very happy that you want to work at our company. This is your .................... . Please, read it. Good morning, Mary. How are you? Yes, you can. Please, call me tomorrow morning. I hope you feel better soon. That’s okay. You can take two weeks in July. Good morning, Devan. I am sorry but I feel ill today. Can I take ........................ ? Thank you. I will read it and sign it now. Mary Mary Manager Devan HT . © 2021 . 6 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S We are very happy that you want to be a waitress at our coffee shop. Do you have any questions? It’s £10. Hi, Clara! Are you happy about your new job? Do you have a new job, Tony? Are you going back to college in September? What is the ........................, please? Yes! The job is nice and I have a good ........................ . I make £1500 per month. Yes. I am starting next week. Yes, I am. My contract is ........................ and it ends in August. In September, I can study full-time. HT . © 2021 . 7 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S What contract do you have, Clara? Is it fixed-term too? No, it is ........................ . I want to work at this company for many years. I finished college last year and I like this job. Where do you work? I work at a hospital. I am a nurse. What is your ........................ ? I do not have an hourly rate. I get a ........................ every month. It is £1500. Is your contract ........................ ? Yes, it is. My ........................ does not have an end date. How many days of ........................ do you have per year? I have sixteen days of sick leave per year. How many days of ........................ do you have? I have twenty-four days of annual leave. 4. Listen and write the words. HT . © 2021 . 8 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S What do you do? I am a social worker. I work at a school. What is your ........................ ? I do not get a salary. I get an ......................... It is £20. Is your contract ........................ ? No, it is not. My ........................ ends in one year. It is a ........................ contract. How many days of ........................ can you take? I can take fourteen days of sick leave per year. How many days of ........................ can you take? I can take twenty-eight days of annual leave. 5. Write the correct words. EMPLOYEES SHIFT END OF THE SHIFT START OF THE SHIFT FULL-TIME COLLEAGUES EMPLOYER COMPANY SCHEDULE DAY OFF MANAGER TEAM PART-TIME HT . © 2021 . 9 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S HAPPY CHICKEN .................. OR .................. .................. .................. .................. .................. 10 am 4 pm Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K W O R K ........................... ......................... ......................... .................... ....................... .................... .................... This is usually thirty-five or more hours of work per week. This is usually between four and thirty-five hours of work per week. HT . © 2021 . 10 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 6. Read the texts and write the correct words. My name is Ali and my company’s name is Good Tools. I have three ........................ employees: Mary, Samuel, and William. Sometimes, we have employees with ........................ contracts too. For example, last year Rashida worked at Good Tools for three months. Are you looking for a job? Before you sign a contract, talk to the employer about some important information. For example, money. I am a ........................ at my company. Sometimes, I work on weekends. My ........................ is £1500 per month. Mary is my ......................... I pay her for the hours she works. Her ........................ is £12. When she works for ten hours, I pay her £120. Before you sign a contract, talk to the employer about the hourly rate or the salary. Holidays are very important too. In my company, Samuel works ......................... He works three days per week. He has sixteen days of ......................... William works ......................... He works five days per week. William has twenty-eight days of annual leave. All employees can take some ......................... I usually work from Monday to Friday. When I want to have a longer weekend, I take two days off: Thursday and Friday. Samuel is taking sixteen days of ........................ in September, because he is visiting his family in Nigeria. SALARY HOURLY RATE MANAGER EMPLOYEE ANNUAL LEAVE PART-TIME DAYS OFF ANNUAL LEAVE FULL-TIME FIXED- TERM PERMANENT HT . © 2021 . 11 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Last year, I started my new job at Happy Chicken. I wanted a full-time schedule. I work thirty-eight hours per week, so I am happy. I have five ........................ per week. I did not want any evening shifts. The ........................ said it was ok. Before you start a new job, talk to the employer about the ......................... Some people want to work ........................ like me, but some people prefer a ........................ job. I have two ........................ in the kitchen: Gavin and Rashida. It’s great, because I like working in small ......................... In some companies, the teams are very big. Some teams have twenty ......................... Do you want to work in a small team or a big team? Something very important in a contract is the ......................... Sometimes you feel ill and you can not work. When I feel ill, I call my ......................... Then, I can stay at home. My ........................ pays me for my sick leave. My friend Mary has a ........................ contract. She works three days per week. Mary has seven days of sick leave per year. I have fourteen days of sick leave. Before you sign a ........................, talk to the employer about the sick leave. SCHEDULE MANAGER PART-TIME FULL-TIME SHIFTS CONTRACT MANAGER SICK LEAVE EMPLOYER PART-TIME TEAMS COLLEAGUES EMPLOYEES HT . © 2021 . 12 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S 7. Listen and write the words. We are very happy that you want to work at our company, Ms Jamali. Do you have any questions about your ........................? The contract is fixed-term. After three months, you can sign a ........................ contract. Yes, please. Is it a ........................ or a ........................ contract? Thank you. Can you tell me about the ........................, please? Yes. If you work between ten and twenty hours per week, you have eight days of sick leave per year. If you work ........................, you have sixteen days of sick leave per year. If an employee works ........................, for example sixteen hours per week, they have twelve days of annual leave. If you work ........................, for example thirtyeight hours per week, you have twenty-eight days of ......................... I understand. I have another question. How many days of ........................ do I have? HT . © 2021 . 13 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Thank you. I have one more question. What is the ........................ ? Thank you for your answers. I do not have any more questions. For new ........................, the hourly rate is £8. After three months, your hourly rate will be £9. You can be a ........................ in the future. Managers have a ......................... Thank you for your time, Ms Jamali. We will call you next week. 8. Answer the questions about Aisha’s contract. Is Aisha’s contract permanent or fixed-term? ................................................................................................... How many days of sick leave does Aisha have if she works part-time? ................................................................................................... How many days of sick leave does Aisha have if she works full-time? ................................................................................................... How many days of annual leave does Aisha have if she works part-time? ................................................................................................... How many days of annual leave does Aisha have if she works full-time? ................................................................................................... Does Aisha have a salary or an hourly rate? ................................................................................................... What is Aisha’s hourly rate? ................................................................................................... Aisha’s contract is fixed-term. 9. Game! HT . © 2021 . 1 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Looking for a job 2 (A2) Teacher’s notes This resource reviews vocabulary presented in “Looking for a job”, available at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/#level-a2. If students need a review on jobs and workplaces, please see our A1 resources “Jobs” and “Jobs 2” at https://research...ac.uk/theenglishhubforrefugees/resources/ #level-a1. Task 4. Where do you work? I work at a hospital. I am a nurse. What is your hourly rate? I do not have an hourly rate. I get a salary every month. It is £1500. Is your contract permanent? Yes, it is. My contract does not have an end date. How many days of sick leave do you have per year? I have sixteen days of sick leave per year. How many days of annual leave do you have? I have twenty-four days of annual leave. HT . © 2021 . 2 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S What do you do? I am a social worker. I work at a school. What is your salary? I do not get a salary. I get an hourly rate. It is £20. Is your contract permanent? No, it is not. My contract ends in one year. It is a fixed-term contract. How many days of sick leave can you take? I can take fourteen days of sick leave per year. How many days of annual leave can you take? I can take twenty-eight days of annual leave. Task 7. We are very happy that you want to work at our company, Ms Jamali. Do you have any questions about your contract? Yes, please. Is it a fixed-term or a permanent contract? HT . © 2021 . 3 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Thank you. Can you tell me about the sick leave, please? Yes. If you work between ten and twenty hours per week, you have eight days of sick leave per year. If you work full-time, you have sixteen days of sick leave per year. If an employee works part-time, for example sixteen hours per week, they have twelve days of annual leave. If you work full-time, for example thirty-eight hours per week, you have twenty-eight days of annual leave. I understand. I have another question. How many days of annual leave do I have? The contract is fixed-term. After three months, you can sign a permanent contract. Thank you. I have one more question. What is the hourly rate? Thank you for your answers. I do not have any more questions. For new employees, the hourly rate is £8. After three months, your hourly rate will be £9. You can be a manager in the future. Managers have a salary. Thank you for your time, Ms Jamali. We will call you next week. HT . © 2021 . 4 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Task 9. Students work in pairs and each student is given a worksheet, A or B (see next pages). Their task is to ask each other questions like those in tasks 4 and 8 and fill in the missing information. If students need help, teachers can write (some of) the example questions and answers on the board: What is your name? My name is ... What do you do? I am a ... Who is your employer? My employer is ... Is your contract permanent or fixed-term? My contract is ... Is your schedule part-time or full-time? My schedule is ... Do you have a salary or an hourly rate? I have a/an ... What is your salary/hourly rate? My salary/hourly rate is ... How many days of sick leave do you have? I have ... How many days of annual leave do you have? I have ... HT . © 2021 . 5 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Name: Vipasha Job: shop assistant Employer: Bradford’s Contract: permanent Schedule: full-time Salary: £1300 per month Sick leave: 15 days per year Annual leave: 28 days Name: Mati Job: driver Employer: Green Cab Contract: fixed-term Schedule: part-time Hourly rate: £9 Sick leave: 8 days per year Annual leave: 12 days Name: .................................. Job: .................................... Employer: .............................. Contract: .............................. Schedule: .............................. Salary: .................................. Sick leave: ............................ Annual leave: ......................... STUDENT A Name: .................................. Job: .................................... Employer: .............................. Contract: .............................. Schedule: .............................. Salary: .................................. Sick leave: ............................ Annual leave: ......................... HT . © 2021 . 6 E ENGLISH F O R R E F U G E E S Name: Gozel Job: teacher Employer: Margate Primary School Contract: fixed-term Schedule: full-time Salary: £1400 per month Sick leave: 16 days per year Annual leave: 29 days Name: Sonu Job: plumber Employer: Good Tools Contract: permanent Schedule: part-time Hourly rate: £13 Sick leave: 10 days per year Annual leave: 20 days STUDENT B Name: .................................. Job: .................................... Employer: .............................. Contract: .............................. Schedule: .............................. Salary: .................................. Sick leave: ............................ Annual leave: ......................... Name: .................................. Job: .................................... Employer: .............................. Contract: .............................. Schedule: .............................. Salary: .................................. Sick leave: ............................ Annual leave: ......................... Anna is a student. She lives in a small town. She is 19 years old. She lives with her parents and her little brother. His name is Ben. He is six years old.
Anna wakes up at 7:00 in the morning. She gets out of bed. She goes to the bathroom. She brushes her teeth and washes her face. Then she goes to the kitchen. Her mother makes breakfast. Anna eats bread with butter and drinks orange juice.
After breakfast, Anna walks to the bus stop. She takes the bus to school. Her school is big. It has many students. Her favorite subject is English. She likes her teacher. Her teacher is nice and funny.
Anna studies hard. She writes in her notebook. She reads books. She learns new words. At 12:30, she eats lunch with her friends. They eat sandwiches and talk. After lunch, she has two more classes.
Anna finishes school at 3:00. She takes the bus home. She helps her brother with his homework. Then she watches a little TV. Sometimes she listens to music. Sometimes she plays games on her phone.
At 6:30, she eats dinner with her family. They eat rice and chicken. They talk about their day. After dinner, Anna does her homework. She studies for her test. Then she takes a shower and goes to bed at 10:00. She is tired but happy.
________________________________________
📘 A2 Reading Passage – Anna's Weekend Adventure
On Saturday, Anna doesn’t go to school. She wakes up later than usual, at 9:00 in the morning. It’s a sunny day, and she feels excited because she has special plans.
She eats breakfast quickly and gets ready. She is going to visit her cousin Emma, who lives in the city. Emma is the same age as Anna, and they are very close. They like the same things, like music, fashion, and movies.
Anna takes the train to the city. The train ride takes one hour. During the journey, she listens to music and watches people around her. She sees a man reading a newspaper and a child playing with a toy.
When Anna arrives, Emma is waiting for her. They hug and smile. Then they walk to the shopping center. It is big and full of shops. They go into clothing stores, try on dresses, and buy matching shirts.
After shopping, they go to a small café. They drink coffee and eat chocolate cake. They talk about school, family, and dreams for the future. Emma wants to be a fashion designer. Anna wants to be a teacher.
Later, they go to the park and sit on a bench. The trees are green, and birds are singing. People are walking dogs, riding bikes, and laughing. It’s peaceful and relaxing.
In the evening, they go to the cinema. They watch a funny film and laugh a lot. After the movie, Anna says goodbye to Emma and takes the train back home. She is tired, but her heart is full. It was a wonderful day.
Carlos is 22 years old. He is a student and he works part-time. He lives in a small apartment in Madrid, Spain. He lives alone but talks to his parents every day on the phone.
Carlos wakes up every morning at 6:30 a.m. He turns off his alarm and stretches in bed. Then he gets up, goes to the bathroom, and brushes his teeth. He takes a quick shower and puts on his clothes. Carlos always wears jeans and a t-shirt to school.
At 7:00 a.m., Carlos eats breakfast. He usually has toast with butter and jam, and he drinks a cup of coffee. Sometimes, if he is not in a hurry, he eats eggs and fruit too. While he eats, he listens to music or watches short videos on his phone.
At 7:30, Carlos leaves the apartment. He walks to the metro station. The metro ride takes 20 minutes. He reads a book or checks his messages during the ride. He likes to arrive at school early.
His first class starts at 8:00. His teachers are kind and helpful. Carlos studies English, computer science, and history. English is difficult for him, but he wants to speak it well. He writes new words in a notebook and practices every day.
After two classes, he takes a break at 10:00. He drinks water and eats a banana. Then he goes back to class.
________________________________________
🟨 Part 2 – Afternoon Activities (A2)
Carlos finishes school at 1:00 p.m. After class, he walks to a nearby café to eat lunch. He often orders a sandwich or a small salad. He also drinks a cold soda or water. He sometimes meets his friends there. They talk about school, TV shows, or weekend plans. Carlos enjoys these short breaks—it helps him relax.
At 2:00 p.m., Carlos goes to work. He works at a bookstore. The bookstore is quiet and clean. His job is to help customers, organize books, and work at the cash register. Carlos likes his job because he loves books and he learns new things every day. Sometimes he recommends books to people who don't know what to read.
His shift ends at 6:00 p.m. Before he goes home, he often stops at the supermarket. He buys food for dinner—rice, vegetables, chicken, or pasta. He also buys snacks and fruit. Then he walks home, listening to music or talking on the phone.
When he gets home, he changes into comfortable clothes. He is usually tired but still has work to do. First, he cooks dinner. He enjoys cooking and tries to make healthy meals. While the food cooks, he cleans the kitchen or washes clothes.
________________________________________
🟦 Part 3 – Evening Routine and Future Dreams (A2)
After dinner, Carlos studies for about one hour. He does his homework, reads chapters from his textbooks, and practices English online. He also writes short paragraphs about his day to improve his writing.
Around 9:00 p.m., Carlos relaxes. He watches TV shows or plays video games. Sometimes, he reads novels or listens to podcasts. He doesn’t stay up late because he gets up early the next day.
Before bed, Carlos makes a list of tasks for tomorrow. He writes down his schedule and any important reminders. Then he brushes his teeth, sets his alarm, and turns off the lights. He usually falls asleep around 10:30 p.m.
Carlos has big dreams. He wants to travel to other countries and speak English fluently. One day, he hopes to work in another country, maybe as a computer programmer or teacher. He is working hard now to make that dream come true.
Chapter 1 – Leila’s Home
Leila is a young woman. She is 20 years old. She lives in Rabat, the capital city of Morocco. Leila lives in a small house with her family. There are five people in her family: her mother, her father, her little brother, her grandmother, and Leila. Her house has three rooms and a small kitchen. They do not have a garden, but they have a small balcony with many flowers.
Leila's mother is a teacher. Her father is a taxi driver. Her brother is only five years old. He does not go to school yet. He stays at home with their grandmother. Leila loves her family very much. They eat together every night, and they talk about their day.
Every morning, Leila helps her mother. She makes tea, cuts bread, and helps clean the kitchen. Leila drinks mint tea with her breakfast every day. Her mother also gives her some olives and cheese. It is a simple breakfast, but Leila likes it.
________________________________________
🚶‍♀️ Chapter 2 – A Normal Day
Leila wakes up at 6:30 a.m. every day. She stretches and opens her window. She likes to hear the birds sing. Then she goes to the bathroom and washes her face. She brushes her teeth and gets dressed. She wears a long dress and a scarf. After breakfast, she puts her books in her bag and walks to the bus stop.
The bus comes at 7:15. It takes her 30 minutes to get to the university. Leila studies biology. She wants to be a doctor one day. She knows it is a long journey, but she is ready to work hard. She likes to read about the human body, health, and nature.
At university, Leila has three classes in the morning. She listens to her teacher, writes in her notebook, and asks questions. Her favorite class is about animals and plants. After class, she eats lunch in the park. She brings a small sandwich and fruit. Sometimes she talks to her classmates. Sometimes she just reads quietly.
________________________________________
📚 Chapter 3 – Afternoon Study and Work
After lunch, Leila goes to the library. The library is very big and full of books. Leila finds a quiet seat near the window. She reads, writes, and studies for two hours every afternoon. She doesn’t have a computer at home, so she uses the library’s computer to check her emails and complete assignments.
Leila is also learning English. She reads English books, watches English videos, and speaks with her language partner online. Her partner is from India. They talk twice a week on video calls. They practice speaking, listening, and reading. Leila wants to speak English well because it helps with science and work.
At 4:00 p.m., Leila leaves the library. Sometimes she walks home to save money. The walk takes one hour, but she enjoys it. She listens to music and watches people in the street. She sees fruit sellers, people drinking tea, children playing football, and men fixing cars.
When she gets home, she helps her grandmother. They prepare dinner together. They cut vegetables, cook rice or couscous, and sometimes make lentil soup. Leila learns a lot about cooking from her grandmother. They talk and laugh while they work.
________________________________________
🍲 Chapter 4 – Evening Time
Dinner is at 7:30 p.m. Leila and her family sit on the floor around a low table. They eat together, talk, and share stories. Her little brother always tells funny stories. After dinner, they drink more mint tea. Her father watches the news. Her mother reads a book. Leila sometimes plays a game with her brother or listens to music on her phone.
Later, Leila goes to her room. It is a small room with a bed, a desk, and many books. The walls are painted blue. There is a photo of the mountains on her wall. She dreams of traveling one day—maybe to Canada, Japan, or Egypt.
Before bed, Leila studies for one more hour. She reviews her notes, writes in her diary, and sometimes writes a short story or a poem. She loves writing. It helps her express her feelings and ideas.
At 10:00 p.m., she turns off the light. She says “good night” to her family and goes to sleep. She is tired but proud of her day.
________________________________________
🕌 Chapter 5 – The Weekend
On Friday and Saturday, Leila does not go to university. Friday is a holy day in Morocco. Leila goes to the mosque with her family in the morning. They wear clean, nice clothes. They pray together and say thank you for their lives.
After prayer, Leila often visits her aunt and cousins. Her cousins are younger than her. They play games and eat sweets. Sometimes, Leila helps them with their schoolwork. She is like a big sister to them.
On Saturday, Leila goes to the market with her mother. The market is loud and colorful. There are fresh fruits, fish, meat, spices, clothes, shoes, and many people. Leila carries the bags and helps choose the best vegetables. She loves the smell of fresh mint, oranges, and cinnamon in the market.
Sometimes, she also meets her best friend, Amina. They go to a café and talk for hours. They drink juice or coffee. They talk about school, dreams, fashion, and boys. Leila trusts Amina with everything. They laugh a lot and take selfies.
________________________________________
✈️ Chapter 6 – Leila’s Dream
Leila dreams of becoming a doctor. She wants to help people who are sick or in pain. She wants to travel to small villages and help people who have no hospitals or doctors nearby. She knows that becoming a doctor is not easy. She must study for many years. But Leila is not afraid. She is strong and focused.
She also wants to speak English, French, and maybe another language. She wants to talk to people from other countries, learn new ideas, and teach others.
In the future, Leila wants to live in a small house with a garden. She wants to grow vegetables, have a cat, and read books under the sun. She wants to work in a hospital and help her community.
But for now, Leila is studying, working, and growing every day. She is learning step by step. She is building her future one day at a time.
And every night, before she sleeps, she tells herself:
“I am learning. I am growing. I am moving forward.”
SPRING – New Beginnings (A1)
Maria is 25 years old. She lives in a small village in the countryside. Her house is next to a forest, and behind her house there is a field. In the spring, the trees turn green. The flowers open. The birds sing every morning. Maria loves spring.
Maria wakes up early every day. At 6:30 in the morning, her alarm rings. She turns it off, stretches, and sits up in bed. She yawns. Then she stands up, walks to the bathroom, and washes her face. She brushes her teeth and combs her hair.
At 7:00, Maria makes breakfast. She eats eggs, toast, and fruit. She drinks tea or orange juice. Then she puts on her boots and a warm coat. Spring is warmer than winter, but mornings are still cold.
Maria works at a farm. She walks for 10 minutes to reach it. At the farm, she feeds chickens, collects eggs, and waters plants in the greenhouse. She plants seeds too—lettuce, carrots, onions, and flowers like sunflowers and daisies.
Maria works from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. At noon, she eats lunch outside. She brings a sandwich, an apple, and water. She watches the sky, the clouds, and the bees flying near the flowers. She smiles. Life is quiet, and she feels happy.
After lunch, she works for two more hours. Then she walks home. At home, she reads books or listens to music. Sometimes she bakes cookies or draws pictures. In the evening, she makes soup or pasta for dinner. After that, she writes in her journal and goes to bed by 10:00 p.m.
________________________________________
☀️ SUMMER – Busy Days (A1–A2)
Summer is hot. The sun rises early and sets late. Maria doesn’t need a coat now. She wears a t-shirt and shorts, and she drinks a lot of water. Work at the farm is harder in the summer. The plants grow quickly. She must water them every morning and every evening.
At 6:00 a.m., Maria wakes up. She washes, eats breakfast, and starts working by 7:00 a.m. She harvests vegetables like tomatoes, cucumbers, and green beans. She washes them and puts them into baskets.
At noon, she rests in the shade. She drinks cold lemonade and eats fresh fruit. The farm is quiet during lunch. Only the sound of birds and the wind in the trees can be heard.
Maria sometimes helps at the village market in the afternoon. She stands at the farm’s stall and sells vegetables, eggs, and flowers. People come and say hello. They ask about the vegetables and thank her. Maria smiles a lot. She enjoys talking to them. It helps her practice English, too. Many tourists visit the village in the summer.
In the evenings, Maria swims in the lake with her friends. The lake is clean and cool. After swimming, they sit on the grass and talk. They watch the stars come out. The sky is big and full of light. Maria feels peaceful.
At night, Maria sometimes writes poems. She loves words. She dreams of writing a book one day. She keeps a notebook with small poems about the moon, the trees, and the people in her village.
________________________________________
🍂 AUTUMN – Changes Come (A2)
Autumn is Maria’s favorite season. The leaves on the trees turn yellow, orange, and red. The air smells fresh and earthy. The sky is often gray, but the colors on the ground are bright. She wears sweaters, scarves, and rain boots now.
Work changes at the farm. In autumn, there are many things to pick—apples, pumpkins, corn, and potatoes. Maria enjoys harvesting. It is hard work, but she feels proud when she sees full baskets.
On weekends, the village holds harvest festivals. People come from other towns to see the decorations, taste the food, and buy handmade items. Maria helps decorate the farm’s stand with straw, leaves, and ribbons. She sells pumpkin pies and small flower pots.
One day, Maria teaches children how to plant seeds. She shows them the tools, how deep to dig, and how to water gently. The children smile and ask many questions. Maria is patient and kind. She realizes she enjoys teaching.
In the afternoons, the weather cools down. Maria drinks hot tea with cinnamon and sits by the window with a blanket. She reads books—stories about travel and adventure. She dreams of visiting new countries. She wants to go to Canada, Ireland, and Japan. One day, she thinks, she will go.
At night, she writes longer stories in her notebook. She writes about a girl who grows a magical garden, or about a bird that can talk. She edits her stories and learns new words. She wants to join an online writing group to practice more.
________________________________________
❄️ WINTER – Quiet and Slow (A2+)
Winter arrives with snow and silence. The village becomes very quiet. The trees are bare, and the sky turns white. The farm closes for a few weeks. Maria has more free time. She works indoors now—making crafts, organizing tools, and helping her neighbors.
She wakes up at 7:30 now. It is cold in the morning, so she stays under her blanket a little longer. Then she gets up, makes oatmeal, and drinks hot tea. She lights a fire in her small fireplace to keep warm.
Maria walks in the snow every day. She wears a thick coat, gloves, and a hat. The forest is peaceful in winter. The snow covers everything like a blanket. She listens to the sound of snow under her boots and watches for animals—foxes, rabbits, and birds that stay for winter.
She volunteers at the village library. She organizes books, helps children find stories, and sometimes reads aloud during story hour. She becomes friends with the librarian, an older woman named Rosa. They drink tea together and talk about books, life, and dreams.
In December, the village prepares for the holidays. Lights are hung, candles are lit, and music plays in every house. Maria helps make decorations with the children. She bakes cookies shaped like stars and trees. Everyone shares food and stories. It feels warm, even when the air outside is cold.
Maria thinks a lot in winter. She reflects on the year. She writes in her journal:
“Spring is for planting, summer is for growing, autumn is for harvesting, and winter is for dreaming.”
She decides to apply for a creative writing course online. She wants to learn more, connect with other writers, and improve her skills. She feels a little nervous, but also excited. Change is good, she thinks.
________________________________________
🌟 A New Year Begins (Wrap-up)
On the last day of December, Maria walks into the forest. The snow is falling gently. She closes her eyes, breathes in the cold air, and smiles.
This year was full of work, learning, friendship, and quiet moments. She feels proud of all she has done. She knows more English now. She has written more poems and stories. She has helped her village and learned new things.
Next year, she hopes to travel, meet new people, and maybe publish her stories. She knows it will take time, but step by step, she is moving forward.
Talking About Work
Anna: Hi, Tom. How are you today?
Tom: I’m good, thanks. How about you?
Anna: I’m okay. A little tired.
Tom: Long day at work?
Anna: Yes. Very busy. Too many emails!
Tom: What do you do again?
Anna: I work in an office. I answer calls, write reports, and talk to clients.
Tom: Sounds stressful.
Anna: Sometimes. But I like my team. What about you?
Tom: I work in a shop. I help customers and sell clothes.
Anna: Do you like it?
Tom: Yes, I do. It’s not boring. Every day is different.
Anna: That’s nice!
________________________________________
🏥 2. Going to the Doctor
Doctor: Hello, what’s the problem today?
Emily: I have a sore throat and a headache.
Doctor: How long have you felt sick?
Emily: Since Monday.
Doctor: Do you have a fever?
Emily: A little, yes.
Doctor: Let me check your temperature.
Emily: Okay.
Doctor: You have a mild fever. I think it’s a cold.
Emily: Should I take medicine?
Doctor: Yes. Drink water, rest, and take this syrup.
Emily: Thank you, doctor.
Doctor: You’re welcome. Feel better soon!
________________________________________
🍔 3. Ordering Food
Waiter: Hello! Can I take your order?
Mark: Yes. I’d like a chicken sandwich, please.
Waiter: Would you like fries with that?
Mark: Yes, please. And a cola.
Waiter: Anything else?
Mark: No, that’s all.
Waiter: Okay, one chicken sandwich, fries, and a cola.
Mark: Yes.
Waiter: That will be £7.50.
Mark: Here you go.
Waiter: Thank you! Your food will be ready soon.
________________________________________
🧭 4. Asking for Directions
Laura: Excuse me, can you help me?
Stranger: Sure! What do you need?
Laura: I’m looking for the train station.
Stranger: Oh, it’s not far. Go straight, then turn left at the traffic light.
Laura: Left at the traffic light?
Stranger: Yes. Walk for two minutes. You’ll see the station on the right.
Laura: Thank you so much!
Stranger: You’re welcome!
________________________________________
🛒 5. At the Supermarket
Cashier: Hello. Do you have a loyalty card?
Sarah: No, I don’t.
Cashier: That’s okay. Did you find everything?
Sarah: Yes, thank you.
Cashier: That will be £12.30.
Sarah: Can I pay by card?
Cashier: Yes, of course.
Sarah: (Pays) Thank you.
Cashier: Here’s your receipt. Have a nice day!
Sarah: You too!
________________________________________
🌦️ 6. Talking About the Weather
Ben: It’s raining again!
Nina: I know. It rains every day this week.
Ben: I want some sun!
Nina: Me too. I miss summer.
Ben: Do you think it will stop tomorrow?
Nina: Maybe. The weather app says “cloudy but dry.”
Ben: Fingers crossed.
Nina: At least it’s not snowing!
Ben: True!
________________________________________
📅 7. Making an Appointment
Receptionist: Good morning. How can I help?
James: I’d like to make a dentist appointment.
Receptionist: Of course. What day is good for you?
James: Friday morning, if possible.
Receptionist: 10 a.m. okay?
James: Yes, perfect.
Receptionist: Your name?
James: James Carter.
Receptionist: All set. See you Friday at 10.
James: Thank you!
________________________________________
👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 8. Talking About Family
Olga: Do you have any brothers or sisters?
Sam: Yes, I have one brother and one sister.
Olga: Are they older or younger?
Sam: My brother is older. My sister is younger.
Olga: Do they live near you?
Sam: No, they live in different cities.
Olga: Do you see them often?
Sam: Not really, but we call each other a lot.
Olga: That’s nice. I have two sisters.
Sam: Big family!
________________________________________
👕 9. Buying Clothes
Shop Assistant: Can I help you?
Anna: Yes, I’m looking for a jacket.
Shop Assistant: What size are you?
Anna: Medium.
Shop Assistant: Here’s one in medium. Would you like to try it on?
Anna: Yes, please.
(After trying)
Anna: It fits well. How much is it?
Shop Assistant: It’s £40.
Anna: Okay, I’ll take it.
Shop Assistant: Great. Please come to the till.
________________________________________
📱 10. Talking on the Phone
John: Hello, this is John.
Emma: Hi John, it’s Emma. How are you?
John: I’m fine, thanks! And you?
Emma: I’m good. Are you free tomorrow?
John: Yes. What’s up?
Emma: Do you want to go for coffee?
John: Sure. What time?
Emma: Maybe 2:00 p.m. at the café near the park?
John: Sounds perfect. See you there!
Emma: Great. Bye!
John: Bye!
Talking About Daily Routines
David: What time do you usually wake up?
Clara: I wake up at 6:30 in the morning.
David: That’s early!
Clara: Yes, I like to have time before work. I take a shower, eat breakfast, and drink coffee.
David: What do you have for breakfast?
Clara: Usually toast and eggs, sometimes cereal.
David: I just drink coffee.
Clara: You should eat something!
David: Maybe you’re right. What time do you leave for work?
Clara: Around 8:00 a.m. I walk to the bus stop.
David: I drive. It takes me 25 minutes to get to the office.
Clara: Do you listen to music in the car?
David: Yes, or sometimes the news.
Clara: I listen to podcasts on the bus.
David: Nice! What time do you finish work?
Clara: 5:00 p.m. Then I go home, cook dinner, and watch TV.
David: Same here. What do you usually eat for dinner?
Clara: Pasta, soup, rice with vegetables… depends on the day.
David: I often get takeout.
Clara: That’s not healthy!
David: I know…
________________________________________
🧳 2. At the Airport
Airport Staff: Good morning. Can I see your passport, please?
Ella: Sure. Here it is.
Staff: Thank you. Are you checking any bags?
Ella: Yes, one suitcase.
Staff: Please place it on the scale.
Ella: Okay.
Staff: All set. Here’s your boarding pass. Your gate is B12.
Ella: Thank you!
Staff: You’re welcome. Have a nice flight.
Ella: Thanks!
(Later at security)
Security Officer: Please take off your shoes and place your laptop in a separate tray.
Ella: Like this?
Officer: Yes, that’s perfect. Do you have any liquids?
Ella: Just a small bottle of water.
Officer: You need to throw it away.
Ella: Oh, okay.
Officer: Thank you. You can go through now.
________________________________________
🧑‍⚕️ 3. At the Pharmacy
Customer: Hi, I have a cold. Can you recommend something?
Pharmacist: Sure. Do you have a sore throat, a cough, or a fever?
Customer: Sore throat and a little cough.
Pharmacist: Try this syrup and throat lozenges. Drink lots of water.
Customer: How many times a day should I take it?
Pharmacist: Two times a day after food.
Customer: Thank you. How much is it?
Pharmacist: £6.50.
Customer: Here you go.
Pharmacist: Get well soon!
________________________________________
🍕 4. Calling for Food Delivery
Delivery Person: Hello, Pizza Town. How can I help you?
Liam: Hi, I’d like to order a pizza, please.
Delivery Person: What size?
Liam: Large.
Delivery Person: What toppings?
Liam: Cheese, mushrooms, and pepperoni.
Delivery Person: Anything else?
Liam: Yes, one cola and garlic bread.
Delivery Person: Your address?
Liam: 14 King Street, Flat 2B.
Delivery Person: Got it. It will be about 30 minutes.
Liam: Great, thank you!
Delivery Person: You’re welcome!
________________________________________
👔 5. Job Interview (Simple)
Interviewer: Hello, please sit down.
Candidate: Thank you.
Interviewer: Tell me about yourself.
Candidate: My name is Lucas. I am 24 years old. I studied computer science and I love working with data.
Interviewer: What was your last job?
Candidate: I worked in a call center. I answered calls and helped customers.
Interviewer: Why do you want this job?
Candidate: I want to grow and learn new skills.
Interviewer: Do you work well in a team?
Candidate: Yes, I do. I like working with people.
Interviewer: Great. We will call you soon.
Candidate: Thank you very much!
________________________________________
🏥 6. Booking a Doctor Appointment
Receptionist: Good afternoon, City Health Clinic.
Nora: Hello, I’d like to see a doctor.
Receptionist: Is it urgent?
Nora: Not urgent, but I need to check my back pain.
Receptionist: We have a slot tomorrow at 3:00 p.m.
Nora: That’s fine.
Receptionist: Your name?
Nora: Nora Ali.
Receptionist: Okay, you’re booked.
Nora: Thank you!
________________________________________
🛍️ 7. At the Market
Vendor: Hello! What would you like?
Mia: One kilo of apples and half a kilo of bananas, please.
Vendor: Here you go. Anything else?
Mia: How much are the oranges?
Vendor: £1.20 per kilo.
Mia: I’ll take one kilo.
Vendor: That’s £3 total.
Mia: Here you are.
Vendor: Thank you! Have a good day.
Mia: You too!
________________________________________
📞 8. Making a Hotel Reservation
Receptionist: Hello, Park View Hotel.
Sam: Hi, I’d like to book a room.
Receptionist: For how many people?
Sam: Two adults.
Receptionist: What dates?
Sam: From the 5th to the 8th of June.
Receptionist: We have a double room available. £80 per night.
Sam: That’s good. Can I book it?
Receptionist: Yes. Can I have your name and phone number?
Sam: Sam Green. 07921 456 890.
Receptionist: All done. See you in June!
Sam: Thank you very much.
________________________________________
🧼 9. At the Laundromat 
Jane: Excuse me, do you know how this machine works?
Worker: Yes, I can help. First, put in your clothes.
Jane: Okay.
Worker: Then choose the program. Press number 3 for normal wash.
Jane: Got it. How much does it cost?
Worker: £4.00. Put coins in here.
Jane: Thank you so much!
Worker: No problem.
________________________________________
🚌 10. On Public Transport
Tom: Excuse me, is this bus going to the city center?
Driver: Yes, it is.
Tom: Great. How much is a ticket?
Driver: £2.20.
Tom: Here you go.
Driver: Thank you.
Tom: Do I need to press the stop button?
Driver: Yes. When your stop is next, press the red button.
Tom: Okay, thanks!

